EX-99.1
2
tm2527461d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 
 Stock Symbol:
 AEM (NYSE and TSX)
 
 
 
 For further information:
 Investor Relations
 
 
 (416) 947-1212
 

 

AGNICO EAGLE ANNOUNCES DISPOSITION OF ITS INTEREST
IN
ROYAL ROAD MINERALS LIMITED

 

Toronto (September 26, 2025) – Agnico
Eagle Mines Limited (NYSE: AEM, TSX: AEM) (“Agnico Eagle” or the “Company”) announced today that it sold 47,944,981
ordinary shares (“Ordinary Shares”) of Royal Road Minerals Limited (“Royal Road”) through the facilities of the
Toronto Stock Exchange at a price of C$0.115 per Ordinary Share for total consideration of C$5,513,673 (the “Disposition”).

 

Immediately prior to the Disposition, Agnico Eagle
had beneficial ownership of, or control or direction over, 47,944,981 Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 18% of the issued and
outstanding Ordinary Shares on a non-diluted basis. After giving effect to the Disposition, Agnico Eagle does not have beneficial ownership
of, or control or direction over, any Ordinary Shares.

 

Agnico Eagle focuses on its high-quality internal
growth projects and complements its pipeline of projects with a strategy of acquiring strategic positions in prospective opportunities
with high geological potential. Agnico Eagle reviews its investments against its strategic priorities on a periodic basis and may, from
time to time, divest certain holdings. Agnico Eagle completed the Disposition in order to monetize its investment in Royal Road and does
not currently have any intention to acquire Ordinary Shares or other securities of Royal Road.

 

An early warning report will be filed by Agnico
Eagle in accordance with applicable securities laws. To obtain a copy of the early warning report, please contact:

 

Agnico Eagle Mines Limited

c/o Investor Relations

145 King Street East, Suite 400

Toronto, Ontario M5C 2Y7

Telephone: 416-947-1212

Email: investor.relations@agnicoeagle.com

 

Agnico Eagle is a senior gold mining company organized
under the laws of the Province of Ontario and its head office is located at 145 King Street East, Suite 400, Toronto, Ontario M5C
2Y7. Royal Road’s head office is located at Ground Floor, Portman House, 32 Hue Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE2 3RE.

 

 
 
 

 

About Agnico Eagle

 

Canadian-based and led, Agnico Eagle is Canada’s
largest mining company and the second largest gold producer in the world. It produces precious metals from operations in Canada, Australia,
Finland and Mexico and has a pipeline of high-quality exploration and development projects. Agnico Eagle is a partner of choice within
the mining industry, recognized globally for its leading sustainability practices. Agnico Eagle was founded in 1957 and has consistently
created value for its shareholders, declaring a cash dividend every year since 1983.

 

Forward-Looking Statements

 

The information in this news release has been
prepared as at September 26, 2025. Certain statements in this news release, referred to herein as “forward-looking statements”,
constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995 and “forward-looking information” under the provisions of Canadian provincial securities laws. These statements can be
identified by the use of words such as “may”, “will” or similar terms.

 

Forward-looking statements in this news release
include, without limitation, statements relating to Agnico Eagle’s acquisition or disposition of securities of Royal Road in the
future.

 

Forward-looking statements are necessarily based
upon a number of factors and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by Agnico Eagle as of the date of such statements, are inherently
subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies. Many factors, known and unknown, could cause
actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Other than as required by law, Agnico
Eagle does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements.

 

 2