EX-99.1
2
tm2218902d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 Stock Symbol:
 AEM (NYSE and TSX)

 
 

 For further information:
 Investor Relations

 
 (416) 947-1212

 

(All amounts expressed
in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted)

 

AGNICO EAGLE PUBLISHES
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

 

Toronto (June 20, 2022) – Agnico
Eagle Mines Limited (NYSE: AEM, TSX: AEM) ("Agnico Eagle" or the "Company") reports that it has released its
2021 Sustainability Report (the "Report"). The Report provides an update on Agnico Eagle's oversight, strategy, practices and
risk management approach to key areas of health and safety, environmental, social and governance ("ESG") and on the historic
sustainability performance of all mining operations.

 

The Report marks the 13th year that
Agnico Eagle has produced a detailed account of the Company's ESG performance. The Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global
Reporting Initiative ("GRI") Standards: Core Options, with additional mining industry specific indicators from the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board ("SASB") Metals and Mining disclosures and metrics. The Report is also aligned with the Task Force
on Climate Related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD").

 

Highlights from the Report include:

 

●Integration
 of Legacy Kirkland Lake Gold operations – On February 8, 2022, Agnico Eagle
 and Kirkland Lake Gold Ltd. ("Kirkland Lake") completed a merger of equals. Performance
 data in the Report from both legacy companies is provided separately, and consolidated where
 appropriate, to provide our stakeholders with a complete understanding of Agnico Eagle's
 current business practices

 

●Strong
 overall ESG performance – The Company maintained or improved performance across
 many key environmental indicators, including zero significant environmental incidents and
 the efficient use of water (78% of water for operational use recycled and reductions in fresh
 water used per ounce of gold produced). The Company continued to contribute and invest in
 the communities in which it operates with a combined $10.0 million in community investments
 and $1.6 billion in local procurement

 

 
 
 

 

●Continued
 commitment to addressing climate-change and reaching net-zero by 2050 – In 2021,
 Agnico Eagle became a formal supporter of TCFD, expanded its climate-change governance model
 and completed a corporate climate-change related risk assessment. The Company's combined
 greenhouse gas ("GHG") profile, with an intensity of 0.4 tonnes of CO2
 equivalent for every ounce of gold produced, continues to position Agnico Eagle as a low
 GHG intensity gold producer. The Report also provides an estimate of Scope 3 emissions for
 legacy Agnico Eagle and legacy Kirkland Lake

 

●COVID-19
 Response – In 2021, Agnico Eagle continued to respond to the challenges presented
 by COVID-19. Throughout the pandemic the Company continued to focus on three priorities:
 protecting its employees, protecting its communities and protecting its operations

 

●Responsible
 Mining – The Company is committed to being a responsible miner and contributor
 to the sustainable development of the regions where it operates. In 2021, Agnico Eagle completed
 an externally verified audit for six mine sites on Towards Sustainable Mining ("TSM"),
 Responsible Gold Mining Principles ("RGMP"), and Voluntary Principles on Security
 and Human Rights ("VPSHRs")

 

The 2021 Sustainability Report can be accessed
here.

 

About Agnico Eagle

 

Agnico Eagle is a senior Canadian gold mining
company, producing precious metals from operations in Canada, Australia, Finland and Mexico. It has a pipeline of high-quality exploration
and development projects in these countries as well as in the United States and Colombia. Agnico Eagle is a partner of choice within
the mining industry, recognized globally for its leading environmental, social and governance practices. The Company was founded in 1957
and has consistently created value for its shareholders, declaring a cash dividend every year since 1983.

 

For further information regarding Agnico Eagle,
contact Investor Relations at investor.relations@agnicoeagle.com or call (416) 947-1212.

 

 2