EX-99.1
2
tm253207d2_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

JOINT NEWS RELEASE

 

Agnico Eagle and O3 Mining Issue Final Reminder
to Tender
to Agnico Eagle’s All Cash 58% Premium Offer Expiring January 23, 2025

 

·Offer is expiring on January 23, 2025

·Agnico is committed to the Offer at $1.67 in cash, which represents a 58% premium to O3 Mining’s closing price on December 11,
2024

·39% of outstanding shares of O3 Mining signed lock-up agreements to tender to the Offer

·Offer unanimously recommended by Board and Special Committee of O3 Mining

·Questions
 or Need Assistance? Contact Laurel Hill Advisory Group at 1-877-452-7184 or email assistance@laurelhill.com

 

Toronto
(January 21, 2025) – Agnico Eagle Mines Limited (NYSE: AEM, TSX: AEM) (“Agnico Eagle”) and O3 Mining Inc. (TSXV:
OIII, OTCQX: OIIIF) (“O3 Mining”) provide O3 Mining shareholders with a final reminder to tender to Agnico Eagle’s
friendly all cash offer to acquire 100% of the common shares of O3 Mining (“Common Shares”) at $1.67 per share (the “Offer”),
which is expiring on January 23, 2025 at 11:59 pm (EST).

 

Tender Shares for Prompt Payment

 

O3 Mining shareholders are strongly encouraged
to tender their Common Shares to the Offer prior to January 23, 2025 to ensure prompt receipt of the Offer price of $1.67 per Common
Share. If the conditions to the Offer are satisfied or waived by the expiry time, Agnico Eagle will take-up and pay for any Common Shares
tendered prior to expiry by January 28, 2025.

 

All directors and officers of O3 Mining and several
of O3 Mining’s largest shareholders, representing approximately 39% of the issued and outstanding Common Shares, entered into lock-up
agreements under which they agreed to tender their Common Shares to the Offer.

 

O3 Mining shareholders
are encouraged to tender their Common Shares as soon as possible to ensure intermediaries have sufficient time to process their requests.
The board of directors of O3 Mining continues to unanimously recommend that O3 Mining
shareholders tender their Common Shares to the Offer.

 

Agnico Eagle’s Intentions

 

Agnico
is committed to the Offer at $1.67. Assuming the 66 2/3% minimum tender condition for the Offer is satisfied or waived, Agnico Eagle intends
to complete the Offer and acquire 100% of any remaining Common Shares in a second-step transaction. Agnico Eagle is not required
to reach a 90% tender threshold under the Offer to acquire 100% of O3 Mining. The closing
of the second-step transaction and the payment for any Common Shares acquired thereunder is not expected to occur before the second quarter
of 2025.

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

How
do I tender my Common Shares?

 

 
 Shareholder
 Type
 How do I tender my Common Shares?
 
 Beneficial Shareholders – Most shareholders are beneficial shareholders. This means your Common Shares are held through a broker, bank or other intermediary, and you do not have a share certificate or DRS advice
 
 Contact your bank or your broker immediately and instruct them to tender your Common Shares to the Offer
 
 Registered Shareholders – You are a registered shareholder if you hold your Common Shares directly (through a share certificate, DRS advice or other method of direct ownership)
 
 Contact Laurel Hill Advisory Group:
 Phone: 1-877-452-7184
 (toll-free)
 Email: assistance@laurelhill.com
 
 
 

If you
have any questions or require any assistance with tendering your Common Shares to the Offer, please contact our Depositary and Information
Agent:

 

Laurel
Hill Advisory Group

 

 
 North American Toll-Free:
 1-877-452-7184
 
 Outside North America:
 +1-416-304-0211
 
 E-mail:
 assistance@laurelhill.com
 

 

Visit
us at www.agnicoeagle.com/Offer-for-O3-Mining to receive the most up-to-date information about the Offer.

 

About
O3 Mining Inc.

 

O3 Mining
Inc. is a gold explorer and mine developer in Québec, Canada, adjacent to Agnico Eagle’s Canadian Malartic mine. O3 Mining
owns a 100% interest in all its properties (128,680 hectares) in Québec. Its principal asset is the Marban Alliance project in
Québec, which O3 Mining has advanced over the last five years to the cusp of its next stage of development, with the expectation
that the project will deliver long-term benefits to stakeholders.

 

About
Agnico Eagle Mines Limited

 

Agnico
Eagle is a Canadian based and led senior gold mining company and the third largest gold producer in the world, producing precious metals
from operations in Canada, Australia, Finland and Mexico, with a pipeline of high-quality exploration and development projects. Agnico
Eagle is a partner of choice within the mining industry, recognized globally for its leading environmental, social and governance practices.
Agnico Eagle was founded in 1957 and has consistently created value for its shareholders, declaring a cash dividend every year since 1983.

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Cautionary
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information

 

This news
release contains “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation that is based
on current expectations, estimates, projections, and interpretations about future events as at the date of this news release. Forward-looking
information and statements are based on estimates of management by O3 Mining and Agnico Eagle, at the time they were made, and involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking information or statements.

 

Forward-looking
statements in this news release include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the Offer, including the anticipated timing of
expiration, mechanics, take up, funding, completion and settlement; the ability of Agnico Eagle to complete the transactions contemplated
by the Offer; the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions to consummate the Offer; a second step transaction pursuant to which Agnico
Eagle may acquire 100% of O3 Mining, including the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions to consummate such second step transaction.
Material factors or assumptions that were applied in formulating the forward-looking information contained herein include, without limitation,
the expectations and beliefs of Agnico Eagle and O3 Mining that all conditions to completion of the Offer will be satisfied or waived;
the ability of Agnico Eagle to acquire 100% of the Common Shares in a subsequent transaction; the decision by Agnico Eagle to extend,
or not, the expiry time of the Offer; that any conditions to a subsequent second-step transaction will be satisfied or waived. Agnico
Eagle and O3 Mining caution that the foregoing list of material factors and assumptions is not exhaustive. Although the forward-looking
information contained in this news release is based upon what Agnico Eagle and O3 Mining believe, or believed at the time, to be reasonable
expectations and assumptions, there is no assurance that actual results will be consistent with such forward-looking information, as there
may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended, and neither O3 Mining, nor Agnico Eagle nor any
other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any such forward-looking information. No assurance can be given
that these expectations will prove to be correct and such forward-looking statements included in this news release should not be unduly
relied upon. O3 Mining and Agnico Eagle do not undertake, and assume no obligation, to update or revise any such forward-looking statements
or forward-looking information contained herein to reflect new events or circumstances, except as may be required by applicable law. These
statements speak only as of the date of this news release.

 

Neither
the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts
responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this news release. No stock exchange, securities commission or other regulatory authority
has approved or disapproved the information contained herein.