EX-99.1
2
tm2214201d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

(All amounts expressed in U.S. dollars unless
otherwise noted)

 

AGNICO EAGLE ANNOUNCES ACCEPTANCE BY TSX
OF NORMAL COURSE ISSUER BID

 

Toronto (May 2, 2022) – Agnico Eagle
Mines Limited (NYSE: AEM, TSX: AEM) ("Agnico Eagle") announced today that it has received approval from the Toronto Stock
Exchange (the "TSX") of Agnico Eagle's notice of intention to make a normal course issuer bid (the "NCIB").

 

Under the NCIB, Agnico Eagle may purchase for
cancellation, on the open market at its discretion, during the period commencing on May 4, 2022 and ending on the earlier of May 3,
2023 and the completion of purchases under the NCIB, up to the lesser of 5% of the issued and outstanding common shares of Agnico Eagle
("Common Shares") and that number of Common Shares that can be purchased by Agnico Eagle under the NCIB for an aggregate purchase
price, excluding commissions, of not more than $500,000,000 subject to the normal terms and limitations of such bids. Based on the closing
share price of $55.85 on April 28, 2022, 8,952,551 Common Shares would be purchasable under the NCIB, representing approximately
1.96% of the issued and outstanding Common Shares as of April 28, 2022. As of April 28, 2022, Agnico Eagle had 455,706,160 issued
and outstanding Common Shares.

 

Daily purchases on the TSX under the NCIB will
be limited to 341,828 Common Shares, other than purchases made pursuant to the block purchase exception, which represents 25% of the average
daily trading volume of 1,367,311 on the TSX for six months ending March 31, 2022. The actual number of Common Shares which may be
purchased under the NCIB and the timing of any such purchases will be determined by the management of Agnico Eagle, subject to applicable
law and the rules of the TSX. Purchases under the NCIB are expected to be made through the facilities of the TSX, the New York Stock
Exchange and alternative trading systems in Canada or the United States, at prevailing market prices. The NCIB will be funded using Agnico
Eagle's existing cash resources, and any Common Shares repurchased by Agnico Eagle under the NCIB will be cancelled.

 

Agnico Eagle believes that the NCIB will provide
a flexible tool as part of Agnico Eagle's overall capital allocation program and objectives, while generating value for shareholders.
Decisions regarding any future repurchases will depend on certain factors, such as market conditions, share price and other opportunities
to invest capital for growth. Agnico Eagle may elect to suspend or discontinue share repurchases at any time, in accordance with applicable
laws.

 

 
 
 

 

Agnico Eagle has established an automatic share
purchase plan in connection with its NCIB to facilitate the purchase of Common Shares during times when Agnico Eagle would ordinarily
not be permitted to purchase Common Shares due to regulatory restrictions or self-imposed black-out periods. Before entering a black-out
period, Agnico Eagle may, but is not required to, instruct the broker to make purchases under the NCIB based on parameters set by Agnico
Eagle in accordance with the share purchase plan, TSX rules and applicable securities laws. The plan has been pre-cleared by the
TSX and will be implemented effective May 9, 2022.

 

About Agnico Eagle

 

Agnico Eagle is a senior Canadian gold mining
company, producing precious metals from operations in Canada, Australia, Finland and Mexico. It has a pipeline of high-quality exploration
and development projects in these countries as well as in the United States and Colombia. Agnico Eagle is a partner of choice within the
mining industry, recognized globally for its leading environmental, social and governance practices. The Company was founded in 1957 and
has consistently created value for its shareholders, declaring a cash dividend every year since 1983.

 

For further information regarding Agnico Eagle,
contact Investor Relations at investor.relations@agnicoeagle.com or call (416) 947-1212.

 

Forward-Looking Statements

 

The information in this news release has been
prepared as at May 2, 2022. Certain statements in this news release, referred to herein as "forward-looking statements",
constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995 and "forward-looking information" under the provisions of Canadian provincial securities laws. These forward-looking statements
can be identified by the use of words such as "believes", "expected", "may", "will" or similar
terms. In particular, such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to Agnico Eagle's intention
to commence the NCIB and the timing, methods and quantity of any purchases of Common Shares under the NCIB, the availability of cash for
repurchases of Common Shares under the NCIB, compliance with applicable laws and regulations pertaining to the NCIB, Agnico Eagle's perceptions
of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other considerations that are believed to be appropriate
in the circumstances.

 

Forward-looking statements are necessarily based
upon a number of factors and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by Agnico Eagle as of the date of such statements, are inherently
subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies. These assumptions include, but are not limited
to, the following assumptions made as at the date of this news release: that governments, Agnico Eagle or others do not take additional
measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise that, individually or in the aggregate, materially affect Agnico Eagle's ability
to operate its business; that there are no significant disruptions affecting operations; that production, permitting, development, expansion
and the ramp up of operations at each of Agnico Eagle's properties proceeds on a basis consistent with current expectations and plans;
that the relevant metal prices, foreign exchange rates and prices for key mining and construction supplies will be consistent with Agnico
Eagle's expectations; the availability and sources of capital; operating costs, ongoing utilization and future expansions, the ability
to reach required commercial agreements, and the ability to obtain required regulatory approvals; and that there are no material variations
in the current tax and regulatory environment.

 

 2
 
 

 

Many factors, known and unknown, could cause actual
results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements included in this news release. These
risks include, but are not limited to: the extent and manner to which COVID-19, and measures taken by governments, Agnico Eagle or others
to attempt to reduce the spread of COVID-19, may affect Agnico Eagle, whether directly or indirectly; the volatility of prices of gold
and other metals; uncertainty of future production, project development, capital expenditures and other costs; foreign exchange rate fluctuations;
financing of additional capital requirements; mining risks; community protests, including by First Nations groups; governmental and environmental
regulation; the behavior of the financial markets, including the volatility of Agnico Eagle's stock price; and certain other risks set
out in Agnico Eagle's public disclosure documents. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors that may affect Agnico
Eagle's ability to achieve the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements contained in this news release, see Agnico Eagle's
Annual Information Form and management's discussion and analysis for the year ended December 31, 2021, each filed on SEDAR at
www.sedar.com and included in the Annual Report on Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2021, which is filed on EDGAR at
www.sec.gov, as well as Agnico Eagle's other filings with the Canadian securities regulators and the US Securities and Exchange Commission.

 

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance
on a forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Other than as required by law, Agnico Eagle does not intend, and
does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements.

 

 3