EX-99.1
2
tm225210d3_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

Form 51-102F3
Material Change Report

 

ITEM 1Name and Address of Company

 

Agnico Eagle Mines Limited (“Agnico Eagle”
or the “Company”)
145 King Street East, Suite 400
Toronto, Ontario M5C 2Y7

 

ITEM 2Date of Material Change

 

February
8, 2022

 

ITEM 3News Release

 

A joint news release setting out information
concerning the material changes described in this material change report was issued by the Company and Kirkland Lake Gold Ltd. (“Kirkland”)
and disseminated through PR Newswire on February 8, 2022. The news release
was subsequently filed on the SEDAR and EDGAR profile of the Company.

 

ITEM 4Summary of Material Change

 

On February 8,
2022, Agnico Eagle completed the previously announced merger transaction with Kirkland whereby Agnico Eagle acquired all of the issued
and outstanding shares of Kirkland.

 

As a result of the completion of the
transaction, Kirkland became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agnico Eagle. Agnico Eagle will continue as Agnico Eagle Mines Limited and
headquartered at Agnico Eagle’s existing head office.

 

ITEM 5Full Description of Material Change

 

On February 8,
2022, Agnico Eagle completed the previously announced merger transaction with Kirkland by way of a court-approved plan of arrangement
of Kirkland (the “Arrangement”) under Section 182 of the Business Corporations Act (Ontario), pursuant
to the terms of a merger agreement dated September 28, 2021, as amended on October 27, 2021, between Kirkland and Agnico Eagle.

 

Pursuant to the Arrangement, Agnico
Eagle acquired all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Kirkland (including all Kirkland CHESS Depositary Interests
(“Kirkland CDIs”)) (collectively, the “Kirkland Shares”) and, in consideration therefor,
former holders (“Kirkland Shareholders”) of Kirkland Shares received 0.7935 (the “Exchange
Ratio”) of a common share of Agnico Eagle (each whole share, an “Agnico Share”) for each Kirkland Share
held immediately prior to the effective time of the Arrangement. No fractional Agnico Shares were issued to Kirkland Shareholders in
connection with the Arrangement and the number of Agnico Shares issued in connection with the Arrangement was rounded down to the
nearest whole Agnico Share in the event that any Kirkland Shareholder was otherwise entitled to a fractional share representing less
than a whole Agnico Share.

 

 
 - 2 -
 

 

As a result of the completion of the
Arrangement, Kirkland became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agnico Eagle. Agnico Eagle will continue as Agnico Eagle Mines Limited, headquartered
at Agnico Eagle’s existing head office and will remain listed for trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”)
and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker “AEM”. In aggregate, Agnico Eagle issued approximately
209,274,263 Agnico Shares under the Arrangement to former Kirkland Shareholders as consideration for their Kirkland Shares.

 

Effective on closing of the Arrangement,
the board of directors of Agnico Eagle consists of: Leona Aglukkaq, Sean Boyd (Executive Chair), Martine Celej, Robert Gemmell, Jonathan
Gill, Peter Grosskopf, Arnold Klassen, Elizabeth Lewis-Gray, Anthony Makuch (Chief Executive Officer), Deborah McCombe, Jeffrey Parr
(Vice-Chair), J. Merfyn Roberts and Jamie Sokalsky (Lead Director).

 

In addition, effective on closing of
the Arrangement, Agnico Eagle’s executive management team includes Sean Boyd, as Executive Chair, Anthony Makuch, as Chief Executive
Officer and Ammar Al-Joundi, as President.

 

Full details of the Arrangement and certain
other matters are set out in the joint management information circular of Agnico Eagle and Kirkland dated October 29, 2021, a copy of
which has been filed under Agnico Eagle’s issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov.

 

ITEM 5.2Disclosure for Restructuring
 Transactions

 

Not applicable.

 

ITEM 6Reliance on subsection 7.1(2) of National Instrument 51-102

 

Not applicable.

 

ITEM 7Omitted Information

 

None.

 

ITEM 8Executive Officer

 

For further information, please contact:

 

Chris Vollmershausen,
Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary
(416) 947-1212

 

ITEM 9Date of Report

 

February 8,
2022.

 

 
 - 3 -
 

 

Forward-Looking Statements

 

The information in this material change report
has been prepared as at February 8, 2022. Certain statements in this material change report, referred to herein as “forward-looking
statements”, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” under the provisions of Canadian provincial securities laws.
These statements can be identified by the use of words such as “anticipate”, “could”, “expect”, “may”,
 “would” or the negative of such terms and similar expressions.

 

Forward-looking statements are necessarily
based upon a number of factors and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by Agnico Eagle as of the date of such statements, are
inherently subject to significant business, economic, operational, and other risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other factors, including
those described below, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements of Agnico Eagle to be materially different from
results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and, as such, undue reliance must not be
placed on them. Forward-looking statements are also based on numerous material factors and assumptions. Many factors, known and unknown,
could cause actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks
include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set out in the joint management information circular of Agnico Eagle and Kirkland dated
October 29, 2021, including under the heading “Risk Factors”. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Other than as required by law, Agnico Eagle does not intend, and does
not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements.