EX-99.1
2
a2241472zex-99_1.htm
EX-99.1

QuickLinks
 -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document

 
 
 Exhibit 99.1 

 

 

 

 
 
First Quarter Report 2020 
 

 

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 

This Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") dated April 30, 2020 of Agnico Eagle Mines Limited ("Agnico Eagle" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with the Company's
condensed interim consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2020 that were prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standard 34 Interim Financial Reporting
("IAS 34") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"). This MD&A should also be read in
conjunction with the MD&A and consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 (the "Form 40-F"),
prepared in accordance with IFRS. The condensed interim consolidated financial statements and this MD&A are presented in United States dollars ("US dollars", "$" or "US$") and all units
of measurement are expressed using the metric system, unless otherwise specified. Certain information in this MD&A is presented in Canadian dollars ("C$"), Mexican pesos or European
Union euros ("Euros" or "€"). Additional information relating to the Company, including the Company's Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2019
(the "AIF"), (as part of the Form 40-F) is available on the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") website at www.sec.gov/edgar and on the Canadian Securities Administrators'
(the "CSA") SEDAR website at www.sedar.com. 

 Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain statements contained in this MD&A constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information" under the provisions of Canadian provincial securities laws and are referred to herein as "forward-looking statements". When used in
this MD&A, the words "anticipate", "could", "estimate", "expect", "forecast", "future", "plan", "possible", "potential", "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Such statements include, without limitation:

•statements regarding the Company's plans to resume operations following temporary suspensions of operations related to the
COVID-19 pandemic, including the timing thereof and impacts on anticipated gold production and costs, as well as expected activities while such suspensions are ongoing; 
•statements regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken to reduce the spread of
COVID-19 on the Company's operations and overall business; 
•the Company's forward-looking production outlook, including estimated ore grades, recovery rates, project timelines,
drilling results, metal production, life of mine estimates, total cash costs per ounce, all-in sustaining costs per ounce, mine site costs per tonne, other expenses, cash flows and free
cash flow; 
•the estimated timing and conclusions of technical studies and evaluations; 
•the methods by which ore will be extracted or processed; 
•statements concerning the Company's expansion plans at the Kittila mine, Meliadine mine's Phase 2 project and
Amaruq deposit's Phase 2 project, and the Company's ramp up of activities at the Meliadine mine, and Amaruq deposit, including the timing, funding, completion and commissioning thereof; 
•statements concerning other expansion projects, recovery rates, mill throughput, optimization and projected exploration,
including costs and other estimates upon which such projections are based; 
•statements regarding timing and amounts of capital expenditures, other expenditures and other cash needs, and expectations
as to the funding thereof; 
•estimates of future mineral reserves, mineral resources, mineral production, optimization efforts and sales; 

1

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

•the projected development of certain ore deposits, including estimates of exploration, development and production and
other capital costs and estimates of the timing of such exploration, development and production or decisions with respect to such exploration, development and production; 
•estimates of mineral reserves and mineral resources and the effect of drill results on future mineral reserves and mineral
resources; 
•statements regarding the Company's ability to obtain the necessary permits and authorizations in connection with its
proposed or current exploration, development and mining operations and the anticipated timing thereof; 
•statements regarding anticipated future exploration; 
•the anticipated timing of events with respect to the Company's mine sites; 
•statements regarding the sufficiency of the Company's cash resources; 
•statements regarding repayments of the Company's unsecured revolving bank credit facility; 
•future dividend amounts and payment dates; and 
•statements regarding anticipated trends with respect to the Company's operations, exploration and the funding thereof. 

Such
statements reflect the Company's views as at the date of this MD&A and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements.
Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon a number of factors and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by Agnico Eagle as of the date of such statements, are inherently subject to
significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies. The material factors and assumptions used in the preparation of the forward looking statements contained herein, which
may prove to be incorrect, include, but are not limited to, the assumptions set forth herein and in the Company's MD&A and AIF for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with Canadian
securities regulators and that are included in its Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC as well as: the return to normal operations as of July 1, 2020
at all of the Company's mine sites following measures being put in place in response to the COVID-19 pandemic; that governments, the Company or others do not take additional measures in
response to the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise that, individually or in the aggregate, materially affect the Company's ability to operate its business; that cautionary measures taken in
connection with the COVID-19 pandemic do not affect productivity; that measures taken relating to, or other effects of, the COVID-19 pandemic do not affect the Company's ability to
obtain necessary supplies and deliver them to its mine sites; that there are no significant disruptions affecting operations; that production, permitting, development, expansion and the ramp up of
operations at each of Agnico Eagle's properties proceeds on a basis consistent with current expectations and plans; that the relevant metal prices, foreign exchange rates and prices for key mining and
construction supplies will be consistent with Agnico Eagle's expectations; that
Agnico Eagle's current estimates of mineral reserves, mineral resources, mineral grades and metal recovery are accurate; that there are no material delays in the timing for completion of ongoing
growth projects; that seismic activity at the Company's operations at the LaRonde mine and other properties is as expected by the Company; that the Company's current plans to optimize production are
successful; and that there are no material variations in the current tax and regulatory environment. 

Many
factors, known and unknown, could cause the actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Such risks include, but are not limited
to: the extent and manner to which COVID-19, and measures taken by governments, the Company or others to attempt to reduce the spread of COVID-19, may affect the Company, whether directly or through
effects on employee health, workforce productivity and availability (including the ability to transport personnel to the Meadowbank Complex and Meliadine mine which operate as fly-in/fly-out camps),
travel restrictions, contractor availability, 

2

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

supply
availability, ability to sell or deliver gold dore bars or concentrate, availability of insurance and the cost thereof, the ability to procure inputs required for the Company's operations and
projects or other aspects of the Company's business; uncertainties with respect to the effect on the global economy associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken to reduce the spread
of COVID-19, any of which could continue to negatively affect financial markets, including the trading price of the Company's shares and the price of gold, and could adversely affect the Company's
ability to raise capital; the volatility of prices of gold and other metals; uncertainty of mineral reserves, mineral resources, mineral grades and mineral recovery estimates; uncertainty of future
production, project development, capital expenditures and other costs; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; financing of additional capital requirements; cost of exploration and development programs;
seismic activity at the Company's operations, including the LaRonde mine; mining risks; community protests, including by First Nations groups; risks associated with foreign operations; governmental
and environmental regulation; the volatility of the Company's stock price; and risks associated with the Company's currency, fuel and by-product metal derivative strategies. 

For
a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors that may affect the Company's ability to achieve the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements contained in this MD&A, see
the AIF and MD&A for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed on SEDAR website at www.sedar.com and included in the Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed on EDGAR
website at www.sec.gov, as well as the Company's other filings with the Canadian securities regulators and the SEC. Other than as required by law, the Company does not intend, and does not assume any
obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. 

 Meaning of "including" and "such as": When used in this MD&A the terms "including" and "such as" mean including and such as, without limitation. 

 Business Overview 

Agnico Eagle is a senior Canadian gold mining company that has produced precious metals since its formation in 1972. The Company's mines are located
in Canada, Mexico and Finland, with exploration and development activities in Canada, Europe, Latin America and the United States. The Company and its shareholders have full exposure to gold
prices due to its long-standing policy of no forward gold sales. Agnico Eagle has declared a cash dividend every year since 1983. 

Agnico
Eagle earns a significant proportion of its revenue and cash flow from the production and sale of gold in both dore bar and concentrate form. The remainder of revenue and cash flow is generated
by the production and sale of by-product metals, primarily silver, zinc and copper. 

Agnico
Eagle's operating mines and development projects are located in what the Company believes to be politically stable countries that are supportive of the mining industry. The political stability
of the regions in which Agnico Eagle operates helps to provide confidence in its current and future prospects and profitability. This is important for Agnico Eagle as it believes that many of its new
mines and recently acquired mining projects have long-term mining potential. 

 Recent Developments 

 Impact of COVID-19 on the Company's Business and Operations 

In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus known as COVID-19 surfaced in Wuhan, China and has spread around the world, with
resulting business and social disruption. COVID-19 was declared a worldwide pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. The speed and extent of the spread of COVID-19,
and the duration and intensity of resulting business disruption and related financial and social impact, are uncertain. Further, the extent and manner to which COVID-19, and measures taken by
governments, the Company or 

3

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

others
to attempt to reduce the spread of COVID-19, may affect the Company cannot be predicted with certainty. 

On
March 19, 2020, following the declaration of a state of public health emergency relating to COVID-19 by the Government of Nunavut, the Company decided to send home its Nunavut-based
workforce from its Meliadine and Meadowbank operations as well as its exploration projects, as part of an effort to limit the risk of spread of COVID-19 in Nunavut. 

In
response to an order by the Government of Quebec, issued on March 23, 2020 (the "Quebec Order") to close all non-essential businesses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the
Company took steps to ramp down its operations in the Abitibi region of Quebec (the LaRonde, LaRonde Zone 5, Goldex and Canadian Malartic mines). The Quebec Order was part of the Quebec
government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Quebec Order was subsequently extended to May 4, 2020; however, on April 15, 2020, the Government of Quebec lifted the
restrictions on mining operations. During the period, each of these operations was placed on temporary suspension, and minimal work took place. The Company also significantly reduced activities at the
Meliadine mine and Meadowbank Complex in Nunavut, which are serviced out of Quebec, and exploration activities in Canada were suspended. 

Commencing
on April 15, 2020, the Company took steps to restart operations in the Abitibi region with the plan to ramp up production gradually over a period of time. Mining and milling
activities in the Nunavut operations are expected to ramp up to full capacity in June 2020 and the Company is evaluating various plans of re-integrating the Nunavut-based workforce into
operations without compromising the health and safety of their communities. 

In
late March 2020, a COVID-19 case was confirmed at the Kittila mine. As part of the response protocols, the Company immediately suspended all underground operations at Kittila for
72 hours in order to identify other employees who may have been in close contact with the employee who had tested positive. In addition, all common areas in the workplace were thoroughly
cleaned and disinfected. Underground operations resumed on March 31, 2020. There was no interruption to surface or mill operations as mill production was maintained with surface stockpiles. 

On
April 2, 2020 the Government of Mexico issued a decree (the "Decree") relating to the COVID-19 pandemic requiring that all non-essential businesses suspend operations until
April 30, 2020. In response to the Decree, mining operations at the Company's Mexico operations (Pinos Altos, Creston Mascota and La India mines) were ramped down. Most of the activity at these
operations were suspended by the Company with the exception of heap leaching at the Creston Mascota and La India mines. On April 17, 2020 the Government of Mexico extended the suspension of
non-essential businesses until May 30, 2020 with the possibility of earlier re-start on May 18, 2020 for businesses located in areas with few COVID-19 cases. The Company is in
discussions with the Government of Mexico to determine whether its mining operations qualify to be able to restart at the earlier date. The Company's mining operations and the exploration activities
remain suspended pending further clarification from the Government. 

As
a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company took action to help prevent the spread of the outbreak at its sites and protect its employees, contractors and the communities in which it
operates. The enhanced health and safety measures included screening employees and contractors entering the Company's sites for potential symptoms of COVID-19, increased cleaning and disinfection
services in lunchrooms, change areas and workplaces, modification of mining protocols to facilitate physical distancing and setup of a mobile laboratory for on-site testing for COVID-19 at the
Nunavut sites. 

Due
to border closures and travel restrictions imposed by federal and local governments, the Company suspended non-essential travel for all employees, including non-essential visits to the Company's
mines and projects. The Company also instituted a change to the shift rotation of its employees at Nunavut sites, which 

4

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

operate
as fly-in/fly-out camps, to 28 days from 14 days to increase the safety of its employees and the communities. In addition, the Company's corporate office and regional offices
were closed, and employees were requested to work from home. The Company has utilized various technology solutions to limit the adverse impact of travel restrictions and remote work arrangements on
the Company's ability to operate and adhere to its business goals. Further measures taken by governments, the Company or others to attempt to reduce the spread of COVID-19 may adversely affect
workforce productivity and availability, including the ability to transport personnel to the Meadowbank Complex and Meliadine mine. 

The
Company continues to assess the logistics challenges to its supply chain and distribution methods to deliver its dore bar and concentrate products from mines to third-party refineries and
smelters. The Company has observed minimal impact to the supply chain to date. The Company has sufficient stock of critical components and has worked closely with its key suppliers to secure future
orders of materials. Similarly, the Company has not experienced significant disruption to its distribution network and ability to deliver its products to smelting and refining facilities or ability to
sell finished products to its customers. However, further measures taken by governments, the Company or others to attempt to reduce the spread of COVID-19 may adversely affect the Company's
availability of supplies or its ability to sell or deliver gold dore bars or concentrate. 

There
are significant uncertainties with respect to future developments and impact to the Company related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the duration, severity and scope of the outbreak
and the measures taken by governments, the Company and others to contain the pandemic. The duration of the suspensions of operations may be extended or further suspension of operations may be required
as a result of another increase in COVID-19 infection rates. There are uncertainties with respect to the pace at which the Company can achieve a timely and safe ramp up of operations once all
restrictions are lifted. 

 Financial and Operating Results 

 Results of Operations 

Agnico Eagle reported a net loss of $21.6 million, or $0.09 per share, in the first quarter of 2020 compared with net income of
$37.0 million, or $0.16 per share, in the first quarter of 2019. Agnico Eagle reported adjusted net income of $56.0 million, or $0.23 per share, in the first quarter of 2020 compared
with adjusted net income of $32.0 million, or $0.14 per share, in the first quarter of 2019. For a reconciliation of adjusted net income to net (loss) income as presented in the condensed
interim consolidated statements of (loss) income in accordance with IFRS, see Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures in this MD&A. 

In
the first quarter of 2020, the operating margin (revenues from mining operations less production costs) of $315.8 million increased compared to $255.3 million in the first quarter of
2019 primarily due to a 26.2% increase in revenues from mining operations as a result of a 21.2% higher average realized price in gold and a 4.3% increase in the sales volume of gold ounces between
periods which excludes 2,974 pre-commercial gold ounces from the Barnat deposit at the Canadian Malartic mine. Gold production increased to 411,366 ounces in the first quarter of 2020
compared with 398,217 ounces in the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to increased gold production from the Meliadine mine. Partially offsetting the overall increase in gold production was a
decrease in gold production from the LaRonde mine as a result of the delay in accessing higher grade ore from the West mine as additional ground support was being completed, and a nine-day shutdown of
the Company's Quebec operations, as mandated by the Quebec Government, and significantly reduced mining activities in Nunavut related to COVID-19 precautionary measures. Cash provided by operating
activities amounted to $163.4 million in the first quarter of 2020 compared with $148.7 million in the first quarter of 2019. Total weighted average cash costs per ounce of gold produced
amounted to $836 on a by-product basis and $889 on a co-product basis in the first quarter of 2020 compared with $623 on a by-product basis and $704 on a co-product basis in the first quarter of 2019.
For a reconciliation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on both a by-product basis (deducting by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without 

5

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

deducting
by-product metal revenues) to production costs as presented in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income in accordance with IFRS, see Non-GAAP
Financial Performance Measures in this MD&A. 

The
table below sets out variances in the key drivers of net (loss) income for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared with the three months ended March 31, 2019: 
 

(millions of United States dollars)

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020
vs. Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 Increase in gold revenues
 
$
140.2
 

 Increase in silver revenues
 
 
1.8
 

 Decrease in net copper revenues
 
 
(0.1
)

 Decrease in net zinc revenues
 
 
(2.2
)

 Decrease in production costs due to effects of foreign currencies
 
 
3.1
 

 Increase in production costs
 
 
(82.3
)

 Increase in exploration and corporate development expenses
 
 
(4.2
)

 Increase in amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
(25.3
)

 Increase in general and administrative expenses
 
 
(1.5
)

 Increase in finance costs
 
 
(2.0
)

 Change in loss (gain) on derivative financial instruments
 
 
(52.4
)

 Change in non-cash foreign currency translation
 
 
(1.6
)

 Increase in other expenses
 
 
(2.7
)

 Increase in income and mining taxes
 
 
(29.4
)

 
 
 
 

 Total net (loss) income variance
 
$
(58.6
)

 
 
 
 

 
 Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 vs. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 

Revenues from mining operations increased to $671.9 million in the first quarter of 2020, compared with $532.2 million in the first
quarter of 2019, primarily due to a 21.2% increase in the average realized price of gold and a 4.3% increase in the sales volume of gold ounces between periods which excludes
2,974 pre-commercial gold ounces from the Barnat deposit at the Canadian Malartic mine. 

Production
costs were $356.1 million in the first quarter of 2020, a 28.6% increase compared with $276.9 million in the first quarter of 2019, primarily due to the contribution of mining
and milling costs from the Meliadine mine which achieved commercial production during the second quarter of 2019, and increased costs related to the slower than expected ramp up at the Amaruq
satellite deposit at the Meadowbank Complex. Partially offsetting the total increase in production costs was a decrease in the mining and milling costs at the LaRonde mine primarily due to the delay
in accessing higher grade ore from the West mine as additional ground support was being completed and the weakening of the Canadian dollar, Mexican peso and Euro relative to the US dollar between
periods. There was no significant impact of COVID-19 on the Company's production costs in the first quarter of 2020. 

Weighted
average total cash costs per ounce of gold produced increased to $836 on a by-product basis and $889 on a co-product basis in the first quarter of 2020, compared with $623 on a by-product
basis and and $704 on a co-product basis in the first quarter of 2019, primarily due to the contribution of mining and milling costs from the Meliadine mine which achieved commercial production during
the second quarter of 2019, and increased costs related to the slower than expected ramp up at the Amaruq satellite deposit at the Meadowbank Complex, partially offset by the weakening of the Canadian
dollar, Mexican peso and Euro relative to the US dollar between periods. For a reconciliation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on both a by-product basis 

6

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

(deducting
by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting by-product metal revenues) to production costs as presented in the condensed interim consolidated
statements of (loss) income in accordance with IFRS, see Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures in this MD&A. 

Exploration
and corporate development expenses increased to $29.6 million in the first quarter of 2020, compared with $25.5 million in the first quarter of 2019, primarily due to an
increase in exploration drilling at the East Gouldie Zone at the Canadian Malartic mine. 

Amortization
of property, plant and mine development increased by $25.3 million to $153.5 million between the first quarter of 2019 and the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to the
commencement of commercial production at the Meliadine mine during the second quarter of 2019. 

General
and administrative expenses increased to $30.5 million during the first quarter of 2020, compared with $29.1 million during the first quarter of 2019, primarily due to increased
compensation and benefits expenses between periods. 

Loss
on derivative financial instruments amounted to $42.6 million during the first quarter of 2020, compared with a gain of $9.8 million during the first quarter of 2019, primarily due
to unrealized losses on currency and commodity derivatives. As a result of a rapid weakening of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso and diesel spot prices at the end of March 2020, the Company
recognized an unrealized loss on currency and commodity derivatives of $38.4 million during the first quarter of 2020, compared to an unrealized gain on currency and commodity derivatives of
$9.3 million during the first quarter of 2019. 

Other
expenses increased to $4.5 million during the first quarter of 2020, compared with $1.9 million during the first quarter of 2019, primarily due to costs of $3.9 million
associated with a temporary suspension of mining and exploration activities at the Company's mine sites and properties in Canada due to COVID-19. These costs primarily included payroll and other
incidental costs associated with maintaining the sites and payroll costs associated with employees who were not working during the period of suspended operations. 

During
the first quarter of 2020, there was a non-cash foreign currency translation loss of $3.8 million attributable to the weakening of the Canadian dollar, Euro and Mexican peso relative to
the US dollar at March 31, 2020, relative to December 31, 2019. The net foreign currency translation loss in the first quarter of 2020 was primarily due to the translation impact of the
Company's net monetary assets denominated in Canadian dollar and Mexican peso. A non-cash foreign currency translation loss of $2.2 million was recorded during the comparative first
quarter of 2019. 

In
the first quarter of 2020, the Company recorded income and mining taxes expense of $44.9 million on income before income and mining taxes of $23.3 million, resulting in an effective
tax rate of 192.7%. In the first quarter of 2019, the Company recorded income and mining taxes expense of $15.5 million on income before income and mining taxes of $52.5 million,
resulting in an effective tax rate of 29.5%. The increase in the effective tax rate between the first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019 was primarily due to an incremental deferred
tax liability on conversion of non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that devalued relative to the US dollar in the first quarter of 2020. 

There
are a number of factors that can significantly impact the Company's effective tax rate including varying rates in different jurisdictions, the non-recognition of certain tax assets, mining
allowances, foreign
currency exchange rate movements, changes in tax laws, the impact of specific transactions and assessments and the relative distribution of income in the Company's operating jurisdictions. As a result
of these factors, the Company's effective tax rate is expected to fluctuate significantly in future periods. 

7

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

 LaRonde mine 

At the LaRonde mine, gold production decreased by 28.7% to 55,223 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 compared with 77,433 ounces in
the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to the delay in accessing higher grade ore from the West mine as additional ground support was being completed. In addition, gold production was affected as a
result of the Quebec Order, which required the Company to temporarily suspend operations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Production costs at the LaRonde mine were $20.6 million in the
first quarter of 2020, a decrease of 66.6% compared with production costs of $61.8 million in the first quarter of 2019 driven primarily by the temporary suspension of the West mine area, which
resulted in lower mine and mill production costs, the timing of inventory sales and the weakening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar between periods. 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine 

At the LaRonde Zone 5 mine, gold production was increased by 11.4% to 14,464 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 compared with
12,988 ounces in the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to increased mill throughput. Production costs at the LaRonde Zone 5 mine were $11.8 million in the first quarter of 2020,
an increase of 107.0% compared with production costs of $5.7 million in the first quarter of 2019 driven primarily by higher mine and mill production costs, partially offset by the weakening of
the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar between periods. 

 Goldex mine 

At the Goldex mine, gold production decreased by 1.7% to 33,883 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 compared with 34,454 ounces in the
first quarter of 2019 primarily due to the Quebec Order, which required the Company to temporarily suspend operations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Production costs at the Goldex mine were
$20.0 million in the first quarter of 2020, an increase of 4.6% compared with production costs of $19.1 million in the first quarter of 2019 driven primarily by the
timing of inventory sales, partially offset by the weakening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar between periods. 

 Meadowbank Complex 

At the Meadowbank Complex, gold production increased by 13.4% to 49,341 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 compared with 43,502 ounces
in the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to higher gold grade ore processed as the Complex switched to Amaruq satellite deposit. Production costs at the Meadowbank Complex were $89.4 million
in the first quarter of 2020, an increase of 113.3% compared with production costs of $41.9 million in the first quarter of 2019 driven primarily by an increase in open pit mining costs as a
result of the switch to Amaruq satellite deposit, increased maintenance costs and the timing of inventory sales, partially offset by the weakening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar
between periods. On March 19, 2020, the Company sent home its Nunvaut based workforce and significantly reduced its activities as part of an effort to limit the risk of the spread of COVID-19
in Nunavut. During the period of reduced activities, the Company continued maintenance work and water management activities in preparation for the spring freshet. 

 Meliadine mine 

At the Meliadine mine, gold production was 69,975 ounces in the first quarter of 2020. Production costs at the Meliadine mine were
$54.3 million in the first quarter of 2020. On March 19, 2020, the Company sent home its Nunvaut based workforce and significantly reduced its activities as part of an effort to limit
the risk of the spread of COVID-19 in Nunavut. During the period of reduced activities, the Company continued limited underground and milling operations. As the Meliadine mine achieved commercial
production during the second quarter of 2019, there is no comparable period in the first quarter of 2019. 

8

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

 Canadian Malartic mine 

Agnico Eagle and Yamana Gold Inc. ("Yamana") jointly acquired 100% of Osisko Mining Corporation ("Osisko") on June 16, 2014 pursuant to
a court-approved plan of arrangement under the Canada Business Corporations Act (the "Osisko Arrangement"). Agnico Eagle and Yamana now
directly and indirectly, through Canadian Malartic Corporation, own 50% of the Canadian Malartic General Partnership ("CMGP"), a general partnership (the "Partnership"), which now holds the
Canadian Malartic mine in northwestern Quebec. 

At
the Canadian Malartic mine, attributable gold production decreased by 22.6% to 64,763 ounces in the first quarter of 2020, which includes 2,974 ounces produced prior to the
achievement of commercial production at the Barnat deposit, compared with 83,670 ounces in the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to lower gold production as a result of the Quebec Order and
lower gold grade ore processed. Attributable production costs at the Canadian Malartic mine were $48.7 million in the first quarter of 2020, a decrease of 2.2% compared with production costs of
$49.8 million in the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to lower mine production costs as a result of the suspension of operations required by the Quebec Order. 

 Kittila mine 

At the Kittila mine, gold production was essentially the same between 49,297 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 compared with
49,336 ounces in the first quarter of 2019. Production costs at the Kittila mine were $43.7 million in the first quarter of 2020, an increase of 13.1% compared with production costs of
$38.6 million in the first quarter of 2019 driven primarily by an increase in contractor costs, higher mill maintenance costs and the timing of inventory sales, partially offset by the
weakening of the Euro relative to the US dollar between periods. In late March 2020, a COVID-19 case was confirmed at the Kittila mine. The Company immediately suspended all underground operations at
Kittila for 72 hours and there was no interruption to surface or mill operations as mill production was maintained with surface stockpiles during that time. Underground operations resumed on
March 31, 2020. 

 Pinos Altos mine 

At the Pinos Altos mine, gold production decreased by 22.0% to 33,310 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 compared with 42,730 ounces
in the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to a decrease in the tonnes of ore processed at the mill and lower gold grade ore. Production costs at the Pinos Altos mine were $35.9 million in the
first quarter of 2020, an increase of 21.0% compared with production costs of $29.7 million in the first quarter of 2019 driven primarily by an increase in underground development costs and the
timing of inventory sales, partially offset by the weakening of the Mexican peso relative to the US dollar between periods. 

 Creston Mascota mine 

At the Creston Mascota mine, gold production increased by 34.4% to 18,184 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 compared with
13,529 ounces in the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to certain tonnes of higher gold grade from the Bravo deposit being processed at the Pinos Altos mill to increase the recovery of gold
ounces. Production costs at the Creston Mascota mine were $11.8 million in the first quarter of 2020, an increase of 20.3% compared with production costs of $9.8 million in the first
quarter of 2019 driven primarily by the timing of inventory sales, partially offset by the weakening of the Mexican peso relative to the US dollar between periods. 

 La India mine 

At the La India mine, gold production was essentially the same between 22,926 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 compared with
22,988 ounces in the first quarter of 2019. Production costs at the La India mine were $20.1 million in the first quarter of 2020, an increase of 13.6% compared with production costs of
$17.7 million 

9

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

in
the first quarter of 2019 driven primarily by the timing of inventory sales, partially offset by the weakening of the Mexican peso relative to the US dollar between periods. 

 Balance Sheet Review 

Total assets as at March 31, 2020 of $9,695.9 million increased by $906.0 million compared with total assets of
$8,789.9 million as at December 31, 2019 primarily due to a $933.4 million increase in cash and cash equivalents. The increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to a
$1,000.0 million drawdown on the Credit Facility ("Credit Facility"), cash provided by operating activities of $163.4 million, and proceeds on stock option exercises of
$28.1 million during the first quarter of 2020, partially offset by $168.8 million in capital expenditures, $37.5 million in dividends paid, $35.9 million for the
repurchase of common shares for stock-based compensation plans, and $16.1 million in purchases of equity securities and other investments. 

Total
liabilities increased by $976.9 million to $4,655.3 million at March 31, 2020 from $3,678.4 million at December 31, 2019 primarily due to a
$1,000.0 million increase in long-term debt from a drawdown on the Credit Facility and a $37.0 million increase in the fair value of derivative financial instruments from unrealized
losses on currency and commodity derivatives. This was partially offset by a $71.2 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities between December 31, 2019 and
March 31, 2020 primarily due to the timing of payment of expenditures. 

While
the Company occasionally enters into contracts to limit the risk associated with decreased by-product metal prices, increased foreign currency costs (including capital expenditures) and input
costs, the contracts act as economic hedges of underlying exposures and are not held for speculative purposes. Agnico Eagle does not use complex derivative contracts to hedge exposures. During the
first quarter of 2020, the Company increased its currency and diesel hedge positions to support its key input costs used in budgeting and mine planning assumptions. As at March 31, 2020, the
Company had outstanding currency derivative contracts related to $1,603.9 million of 2020, 2021 and 2022 expenditures (December 31,
2019 — $252.0 million) and diesel fuel derivative contracts related to 48.3 million gallons of heating oil (December 31,
2019 — 12.0 million). 

 Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As at March 31, 2020, the Company's cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $1,263.4 million compared with
$327.9 million as at December 31, 2019. The Company's policy is to invest excess cash in high-yield depository accounts and highly liquid investments of the highest credit quality to
reduce risks associated with these investments. Such investments with remaining maturities of greater than three months and less than one year at the time of purchase are classified as short-term
investments. Decisions regarding the length of maturities are based on cash flow requirements, rates of return and various other factors. 

Working
capital (current assets less current liabilities) increased to $1,316.4 million as at March 31, 2020 compared with $417.9 million as at December 31, 2019 primarily
due to a $1,000.0 million drawdown on the Credit Facility. The Company drew down these funds as a cautionary measure given the uncertainty with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic at the
time. As at March 31, 2020, $200.0 million was available for future drawdown under the Credit Facility. Credit Facility availability is reduced by outstanding letters of credit which
were nil as of March 31, 2020. In late April 2020, based on prevailing market conditions and the timing of the production ramp up of its operating mines, the Company decided to repay
$500.0 million outstanding on its Credit Facility. The Company expects to repay the remaining amount of $500.0 million in the second half of 2020, conditional on continuous improvement
in the internal cash generation and the reduction in uncertainty with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic. 

During
the first quarter of 2020, DBRS Morningstar upgraded the Company's investment grade credit rating to BBB from BBB (low) and changed the trend to Stable from Positive, reflecting the
Company's strong financial risk profile. Additionally, in April 2020, Fitch Ratings Inc. issued its inaugural credit rating for the Company, 

10

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

assigning
a rating of BBB with a Stable trend in consideration of the Company's strong credit and growing production profile. Together, these ratings should result in a reduction in future financing
costs of the Credit Facility. 

On
April 7, 2020, subsequent to the end of the first quarter of 2020, the Company closed a $200.0 million private placement of guaranteed senior unsecured notes (the "2020 Notes"). The
2020 Notes consist of $100.0 million 2.78% Series A Senior Notes due 2030 and $100.0 million 2.88% Series B Senior Notes due 2032. The other terms of the Notes are
substantially the same as the terms of the existing outstanding Notes of the Company. Proceeds from the 2020 Notes were used to partially fund the repayment at maturity of $360.0 million 2010
6.67% Series B Notes. The remaining balance of the 2010 Series B Notes was repaid using the Company's existing cash resources. 

Subject
to various risks and uncertainties, the Company believes it will generate sufficient cash flow from operations and has adequate cash and debt facilities available to finance its current
operations, contractual obligations and planned capital expenditure and exploration programs. As of March 31, 2020, the Company had no debt or Credit Facility maturities until 2022, except for
the $360.0 million 2010 Series B Notes repaid in April 2020 and leases in the normal course of business. While the Company believes its capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy
all its mandatory and discretionary commitments, the Company may choose to decrease certain of its discretionary expenditure commitments, which include certain capital expenditures and exploration and
corporate development expenses, should unexpected financial circumstances arise in the future. See Recent Developments, Outlook and Risk Profile in this
MD&A. 

 Operating Activities 

Cash provided by operating activities increased to $163.4 million in the first quarter of 2020 compared with $148.7 million in the
first quarter of 2019 primarily due to a 4.3% increase in payable gold ounces sold and higher average realized gold prices, partially offset by less favourable working capital changes between periods,
and an increase in production costs and exploration and corporate development costs, and certain costs related to temporary suspension of mining and exploration activities due to COVID-19 between
periods. 

 Investing Activities 

Cash used in investing activities decreased to $178.2 million in the first quarter of 2020 compared with $227.6 million in the first
quarter of 2019 primarily due to a $34.5 million decrease in capital expenditures between periods. The decrease in capital expenditures between periods is mainly
attributable to a decrease in construction expenditures related to the Meliadine mine which achieved commercial production in May 2019 and the Amaruq satellite deposit at the Meadowbank Complex
which achieved commercial production in September 2019. 

In
the first quarter of 2020, the Company purchased $16.1 million in equity securities and other investments compared with $25.0 million in the first quarter of 2019. The Company's
equity securities and other investments consist primarily of investments in common shares and financial instruments of entities in the mining industry. 

 Financing Activities 

Cash provided by financing activities increased to $954.8 million in the first quarter of 2020 compared with cash used in financing activities
of $33.5 million in the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to a $1,000.0 million increase in proceeds from the Credit Facility. 

The
Company issued common shares for net proceeds of $32.0 million in the first quarter of 2020 and $19.5 million in the first quarter of 2019 attributable to employee stock option plan
exercises, issuances under the incentive share purchase plan and the dividend reinvestment plan. 

11

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

On
February 13, 2020, Agnico Eagle declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per common share paid on March 16, 2020 to holders of record of the common shares of the Company as of
February 28, 2020. Agnico Eagle has declared a cash dividend every year since 1983. In the first quarter of 2020, the Company paid dividends of $37.5 million, an increase of
$12.0 million compared to $25.5 million paid in the first quarter of 2019. Although the Company expects to continue paying dividends, future dividends will be at the discretion of the
Board and will be subject to factors such as income, financial condition and capital requirements. 

On
December 14, 2018, the Company amended its $1.2 billion Credit Facility to extend the maturity date from June 22, 2022 to June 22, 2023. In March 2020, the
Company drew down $1,000.0 million on its $1,200.0 million Credit Facility. 

On
June 29, 2016, the Company entered into a standby letter of credit facility with a financial institution providing for a C$100.0 million uncommitted letter of credit facility
(the "Third LC Facility"). Letters of credit issued under the Third LC Facility may be used to support the reclamation obligations or non-financial or performance obligations of the Company or
its subsidiaries. The obligations of the Company under the Third
LC Facility are guaranteed by certain of its subsidiaries. As at March 31, 2020, the aggregate undrawn face amount of letters of credit under the Third LC Facility amounted to
$56.7 million. 

On
September 23, 2015, the Company entered into a standby letter of credit facility with a financial institution providing for a C$150.0 million uncommitted letter of credit facility
(as amended, the "Second LC Facility"). The Second LC Facility may be used by the Company to support the reclamation obligations of the Company, its subsidiaries or any entity in which the
Company has a direct or indirect interest or the performance obligations (other than with respect to indebtedness for borrowed money) of the Company, its subsidiaries or any entity in which the
Company has a direct or indirect interest that are not directly related to reclamation obligations. Payment and performance of the Company's obligations under the Second LC Facility are supported by
an account performance security guarantee issued by Export Development Canada in favour of the lender. As at March 31, 2020, the aggregate undrawn face amount of letters of credit under the
Second LC Facility amounted to $91.7 million. 

On
July 31, 2015, the Company amended its credit agreement with another financial institution relating to its uncommitted letter of credit facility (as amended, the "First LC Facility").
Effective September 27, 2016, the amount available under the First LC Facility was increased to C$350.0 million. The obligations of the Company under the First LC Facility are guaranteed
by certain of its subsidiaries. The First LC Facility may be used to support the reclamation obligations or non-financial or performance obligations of the Company or its subsidiaries. As at
March 31, 2020, the aggregate undrawn face amount of letters of credit under the First LC Facility amounted to $179.4 million. 

The
Company was in compliance with all covenants contained in the Credit Facility, First LC Facility, Second LC Facility, Third LC Facility and the $1,735.0 million guaranteed senior unsecured
notes as at March 31, 2020. 

 Outlook 

The following section contains "forward-looking statements" and "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable securities laws. The Company continues to monitor to implications of the worldwide
pandemic caused by the novel strain of coronavirus known as COVID-19. The manner and extent that the pandemic,
and measures taken as a result of the pandemic, will affect the Company cannot be predicted with certainty. See Forward-Looking
Statements and Impact of COVID-19 on the Company's Business and Operations in this MD&A for a discussion of assumptions and
risks relating to such statements and information and a discussion of the certain risks facing the Company relating to the pandemic. 

12

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

The
outlook outlined below assumes the return to normal operations as of July 1, 2020; however, there could be additional requirements relating to the COVID-19 pandemic that could impact
productivity and cost performance at the Company's mining operations. 

 Gold Production and Costs 

On March 24, 2020, the Company announced that it was withdrawing its full year 2020 production and cash costs outlook that had been released
on February 13, 2020. The withdrawal of this outlook was a result of the reduction in the production activity at the Company's Quebec and Nunavut mines resulting from the Quebec Order and the
Company's decision to send home its Nunavut-based workforce together with the uncertainties with respect to future developments, including the duration, severity and scope of the
COVID-19 outbreak and measures taken to contain the outbreak. At the time of the withdrawal of this outlook, the assumption that the Company's Quebec and Nunavut mines could continue operating
in the normal course in light of the COVID-19 outbreak was no longer valid. 

In
light of the recent developments as outlined in Impact of COVID-19 on the Company's Business and Operations in this MD&A, the Company is
providing new outlook for 2020 regarding Company-wide expected payable gold production volumes and cash costs. Payable gold production for the full year 2020 is now expected to be between 1.63 and
1.73 million ounces, compared to the previous estimate of approximately 1.875 million ounces. Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis for the full year 2020 are
expected to be approximately $740 to $790, compared to the previous estimate of approximately $725 to $775. 

 Capital Expenditures and All-In Sustaining Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced 

The Company has also updated its outlook for 2020 regarding capital expenditures and all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced. These
updates are necessary as a result of the suspension or reduction of mining operations at the Company's various mines that commenced in the first quarter of 2020 and were part of the efforts of
governments, the Company and others to address the COVID-19 pandemic. Total capital expenditures (including sustaining capital) for the full year 2020 are now expected to be approximately
$690.0 million, compared to the previous estimate of $740.0 million. All-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis for the full year 2020 are expected to be
approximately $1,025 to $1,075, compared to the previous estimate of approximately $975 to $1,025. 

 Risk Profile 

The Company is subject to significant risks, including but not limited to fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and other risks
due to the inherent nature of the business of exploration, development and mining of properties with precious metals. Changes in economic conditions and volatile financial markets may have a
significant impact on Agnico Eagle's cost and availability of financing and overall liquidity. The volatility in gold, silver, zinc and copper prices directly affects Agnico Eagle's revenues, earnings
and cash flow. Volatile energy, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates impact production costs. The Company is subject to risks related to pandemics and other outbreaks of
communicable diseases such as COVID-19, as well as the economic impacts that result therefrom. For a more comprehensive discussion of these and other risks, see "Risk Factors" in the MD&A and
Form 40-F/AIF for the year ended December 31, 2019 on file with the SEC and the CSA's SEDAR website. For the discussion of risks incremental to those disclosed in the
Form 40-F/AIF, refer to Forward-Looking Statements, Impact of COVID-19 on the Company's Business and Operations, and Outlook in
this MD&A. 

13

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

 Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Controls over Financial Reporting 

The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ("ICFR") and disclosure
controls and procedures ("DC&P"). 

ICFR
is a framework designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Management has used the Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) in order to assess the effectiveness of the Company's ICFR. 

DC&P
form a broader framework designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in its annual and interim filings and other reports filed under
securities legislation is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time frame specified in securities legislation and includes controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by the Company in its annual and interim filings and other reports submitted under securities legislation is accumulated and communicated to the Company's
management to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

Together,
the ICFR and DC&P frameworks provide internal control over financial reporting and disclosure. The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide
reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be disclosed in the Company's annual and interim filings and other reports filed under securities legislation, is accumulated and
communicated in a timely fashion. Due to their inherent limitations, the Company acknowledges that, no matter how well designed, ICFR and DC&P can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the
desired control objectives and as such may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Further, the effectiveness of ICFR is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may change. 

In
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company asked all of its corporate office staff and many site administrative staff at regional, mine site and exploration offices to work from home. This
change requires certain processes and controls that were previously done or documented manually to be completed and retained in electronic form. The Company continues to monitor whether remote work
arrangements have adversely affected the Company's ability to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Despite the changes required by the current
environment, there have been no significant changes in our internal controls during the quarter ended March 31, 2020 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, internal control over financial reporting. 

 Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures 

This MD&A presents certain financial performance measures, including adjusted net income, total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (on both
a by-product and co-product basis), minesite costs per tonne and all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced (on both a by-product and co-product basis), that are not recognized measures
under IFRS. This data may not be comparable to data presented by other gold producers. Non-GAAP financial performance measures should be considered together with other data prepared in accordance
with IFRS. 

 Adjusted Net Income 

Adjusted net income is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data presented by other gold producers. This
measure is calculated by adjusting net (loss) income as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income for non-recurring, unusual and other items. The Company believes that
this generally accepted industry measure allows the evaluation of the results of continuing operations and is useful in making comparisons between periods. Adjusted net income is intended to provide
investors with information about the Company's continuing income generating capabilities. 

14

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

Management
uses this measure to monitor and plan for the operating performance of the Company in conjunction with other data prepared in accordance with IFRS. The Company does not exclude stock-based
compensation expense in its calculation of adjusted net income. Stock option expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $6.6 million (three months ended March 31,
2019 — $6.2 million). In addition, the Company did not exclude payroll costs of approximately $1.2 million in its calculation of adjusted net income
for the three months ended March 31, 2020 which are associated with mine site employees who were working remotely during the period of suspended operations due to COVID-19. 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

(thousands of United States dollars)

 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 Net (loss) income for the period
 
$
(21,565
)
$
37,032
 

 Foreign currency translation loss
 
 
3,846
 
 
2,206
 

 Realized and unrealized loss (gain) on derivative financial instruments
 
 
42,602
 
 
(9,816
)

 Temporary suspension costs due to COVID-19(i)
 
 
3,949
 
 
—
 

 Other(ii)
 
 
2,968
 
 
3,335
 

 Income and mining taxes adjustments(iii)
 
 
24,225
 
 
(786
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Adjusted net income for the period
 
$
56,025
 
$
31,971
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net (loss) income per share — basic and diluted
 
$
(0.09
)
$
0.16
 

 Adjusted net income per share — basic and diluted
 
$
0.23
 
$
0.14
 

 

 Notes: 

(i)Temporary
suspension costs represent costs incurred during the period of limited or no production activity due to COVID-19, and therefore are not reflective
of the Company's operating performance. These costs include primarily payroll and other incidental costs associated with maintaining the mine sites and exploration properties and payroll costs
associated with employees who were not working during the period of suspended operations.
(ii)The
Company includes certain adjustments in "Other" to the extent that management believes that these items are not reflective of the underlying
performance of the Company's core operating business. Examples of items historically included in "Other" include changes in estimates of asset retirement obligations at closed sites, gains and losses
on the disposal of assets, and in the current period, interest on the Credit Facility, which was drawn down as a cautionary measure in the uncertain economic environment with respect to COVID-19.
(iii)Income
and mining taxes adjustments reflect items such as foreign currency translation recorded to the income and mining taxes expense, income and mining
taxes impact on normalized items, recognition of previously unrecognized capital losses, the result of income and mining taxes audits, impact of tax law changes and reflective adjustments to prior
period operating results. 
 
 15

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 

 Total Cash Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced and Minesite Costs per Tonne 

The Company believes that total cash costs per ounce of gold produced and minesite costs per tonne are realistic indicators of operating performance
and facilitate period over period comparisons. However, both of these non-GAAP generally accepted industry measures should be considered together with other data prepared in accordance with IFRS.
These measures, taken by themselves, are not necessarily indicative of operating costs or cash flow measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

The
total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is reported on both a by-product basis (deducting by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting by-product
metal revenues). The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis is calculated by adjusting production costs as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated statements of
(loss) income for by-product revenues, inventory production costs, smelting, refining and marketing charges and other adjustments, and then dividing by the number of ounces of gold produced. The total
cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis is calculated in the same manner as the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis, except that no adjustment is made
for by-product metal revenues. Accordingly, the calculation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis does not reflect a reduction in production costs or smelting, refining
and marketing charges associated with the production and sale of by-product metals. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is intended to provide information about the cash generating
capabilities of the Company's mining operations. Management also uses these measures to monitor the performance of the Company's mining operations. As market prices for gold are quoted on a per ounce
basis, using the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis measure allows management to assess a mine's cash generating capabilities at various gold prices. Management is aware
that these per ounce measures of performance can be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and, in the case of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis, by-product metal
prices. Management compensates for these inherent limitations by using these measures in conjunction with minesite costs per tonne (discussed below) as well as other data prepared in accordance with
IFRS. Management also performs sensitivity analysis in order to quantify the effects of fluctuating metal prices and exchange rates. 

Agnico
Eagle's primary business is gold production and the focus of its current operations and future development is on maximizing returns from gold production, with other metal production being
incidental to the gold production process. Accordingly, all metals other than gold are considered by-products. 

Total
cash costs per ounce of gold produced is reported on a by-product basis because (i) the majority of the Company's revenues are gold revenues, (ii) the Company mines ore, which
contains gold, silver, zinc, copper and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all costs to revenues from the gold, silver, zinc, copper and other metals the Company
produces and (iv) it is a method used by management and the Board to monitor operations. 

Minesite
costs per tonne are calculated by adjusting production costs as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income for inventory production costs and other
adjustments, and then dividing by tonnes of ore processed. As the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced can be affected by fluctuations in by-product metal prices and foreign exchange rates,
management believes that minesite costs per tonne provide additional information regarding the performance of mining operations, eliminating the
impact of varying production levels. Management also uses this measure to determine the economic viability of mining blocks. As each mining block is evaluated based on the net realizable value of each
tonne mined, in order to be economically viable the estimated revenue on a per tonne basis must be in excess of the minesite costs per tonne. Management is aware that this per tonne measure of
performance can be impacted by fluctuations in production levels and compensates for this inherent limitation by using this measure in conjunction with processing costs prepared in accordance
with IFRS. 

16

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

The
following tables set out a reconciliation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (on both a by-product basis and co-product basis) and minesite costs per tonne to production costs,
exclusive of amortization, as presented in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income in accordance with IFRS. 

 Total Production Costs by Mine 
 

(thousands of United States dollars)
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
$
20,636
 
$
61,803
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
11,792
 
 
5,675
 

 Lapa mine
 
 
—
 
 
2,844
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
19,958
 
 
19,074
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
89,366
 
 
41,905
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
54,255
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(i)
 
 
48,656
 
 
49,759
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
43,671
 
 
38,600
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
35,881
 
 
29,658
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
11,837
 
 
9,836
 

 La India mine
 
 
20,050
 
 
17,739
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Production costs per the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income
 
$
356,102
 
$
276,893
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Reconciliation of Production Costs to Total Cash Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) by Mine and Reconciliation of Production Costs to Minesite
Costs per Tonne(iii) by Mine 

(thousands of United States dollars, except as noted) 
 

LaRonde mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
55,223
 
 
 
 
 
77,433
 

 Production costs
 
$

20,636
 
$

374
 
$

61,803
 
$

798
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
23,856
 
 
432
 
 
(7,212
)
 
(93
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
44,492
 
$
806
 
$
54,591
 
$
705
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(6,828
)
 
(124
)
 
(16,792
)
 
(217
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
37,664
 
$
682
 
$
37,799
 
$
488
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

LaRonde mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
412
 
 
 
 
 
547
 

 Production costs
 
$

20,636
 
$

50
 
$

61,803
 
$

113
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
25,831
 
C$
63
 
C$
82,055
 
C$
150
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
28,591
 
 
69
 
 
(17,655
)
 
(32
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
54,422
 
C$
132
 
C$
64,400
 
C$
118
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 17

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

LaRonde Zone 5 mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
14,464
 
 
 
 
 
12,988
 

 Production costs
 
$

11,792
 
$

815
 
$

5,675
 
$

437
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
462
 
 
32
 
 
3,113
 
 
240
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
12,254
 
$
847
 
$
8,788
 
$
677
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(33
)
 
(2
)
 
(34
)
 
(3
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
12,221
 
$
845
 
$
8,754
 
$
674
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

LaRonde Zone 5 mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
245
 
 
 
 
 
181
 

 Production costs
 
$

11,792
 
$

48
 
$

5,675
 
$

31
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
15,803
 
C$
65
 
C$
7,513
 
C$
42
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
660
 
 
2
 
 
4,158
 
 
22
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
16,463
 
C$
67
 
C$
11,671
 
C$
64
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Goldex mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
33,883
 
 
 
 
 
34,454
 

 Production costs
 
$

19,958
 
$

589
 
$

19,074
 
$

554
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(1,063
)
 
(31
)
 
149
 
 
4
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
18,895
 
$
558
 
$
19,223
 
$
558
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(6
)
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
18,895
 
$
558
 
$
19,217
 
$
558
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Goldex mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
657
 
 
 
 
 
655
 

 Production costs
 
$

19,958
 
$

30
 
$

19,074
 
$

29
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
26,239
 
C$
40
 
C$
25,315
 
C$
39
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
(932
)
 
(1
)
 
245
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
25,307
 
C$
39
 
C$
25,560
 
C$
39
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 18

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 
 

Meadowbank Complex
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
49,341
 
 
 
 
 
43,502
 

 Production costs
 
$

89,366
 
$

1,811
 
$

41,905
 
$

963
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(7,944
)
 
(161
)
 
(1,965
)
 
(45
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
81,422
 
$
1,650
 
$
39,940
 
$
918
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(301
)
 
(6
)
 
(353
)
 
(8
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
81,121
 
$
1,644
 
$
39,587
 
$
910
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Meadowbank Complex
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
579
 
 
 
 
 
628
 

 Production costs
 
$

89,366
 
$

154
 
$

41,905
 
$

67
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
119,505
 
C$
206
 
C$
55,396
 
C$
88
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
(11,925
)
 
(20
)
 
(1,104
)
 
(2
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
107,580
 
C$
186
 
C$
54,292
 
C$
86
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Meliadine mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
69,975
 
 
 
 
 
—
 

 Production costs
 
$

54,255
 
$

775
 
$

—
 
$

—
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
1,787
 
 
26
 
 
—
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
56,042
 
$
801
 
$
—
 
$
—
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(112
)
 
(2
)
 
—
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
55,930
 
$
799
 
$
—
 
$
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Meliadine mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
307
 
 
 
 
 
—
 

 Production costs
 
$

54,255
 
$

177
 
$

—
 
$

—
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
71,927
 
C$
234
 
C$
—
 
C$
—
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
2,118
 
 
7
 
 
—
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
74,045
 
C$
241
 
C$
—
 
C$
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 19

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

Canadian Malartic mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(i)(ii)(vi) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
61,789
 
 
 
 
 
83,670
 

 Production costs
 
$

48,656
 
$

787
 
$

49,759
 
$

595
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(1,507
)
 
(24
)
 
(373
)
 
(5
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
47,149
 
$
763
 
$
49,386
 
$
590
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(1,773
)
 
(29
)
 
(1,556
)
 
(18
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
45,376
 
$
734
 
$
47,830
 
$
572
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Canadian Malartic mine
Per Tonne(i)(iii)(vii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
2,321
 
 
 
 
 
2,517
 

 Production costs
 
$

48,656
 
$

21
 
$

49,759
 
$

20
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
65,472
 
C$
28
 
C$
65,564
 
C$
26
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
(2,526
)
 
(1
)
 
(484
)
 
(1
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
62,946
 
C$
27
 
C$
65,080
 
C$
25
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Kittila mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
49,297
 
 
 
 
 
49,336
 

 Production costs
 
$

43,671
 
$

886
 
$

38,600
 
$

782
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(3,676
)
 
(75
)
 
(282
)
 
(5
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
39,995
 
$
811
 
$
38,318
 
$
777
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(54
)
 
(1
)
 
(76
)
 
(2
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
39,941
 
$
810
 
$
38,242
 
$
775
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Kittila mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
420
 
 
 
 
 
456
 

 Production costs
 
$

43,671
 
$

104
 
$

38,600
 
$

85
 

 Production costs (€)
 
€
39,665
 
€
94
 
€
34,022
 
€
75
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (€)(v)
 
 
(3,358
)
 
(7
)
 
(301
)
 
(1
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (€)
 
€
36,307
 
€
87
 
€
33,721
 
€
74
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 20

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 
 

Pinos Altos mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
33,310
 
 
 
 
 
42,730
 

 Production costs
 
$

35,881
 
$

1,077
 
$

29,658
 
$

694
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(2,906
)
 
(87
)
 
283
 
 
7
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
32,975
 
$
990
 
$
29,941
 
$
701
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(8,079
)
 
(243
)
 
(8,851
)
 
(207
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
24,896
 
$
747
 
$
21,090
 
$
494
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Pinos Altos mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore processed (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
480
 
 
 
 
 
478
 

 Production costs
 
$

35,881
 
$

75
 
$

29,658
 
$

62
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(v)
 
 
(3,491
)
 
(8
)
 
(22
)
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs
 
$
32,390
 
$
67
 
$
29,636
 
$
62
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Creston Mascota mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
18,184
 
 
 
 
 
13,529
 

 Production costs
 
$

11,837
 
$

651
 
$

9,836
 
$

727
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(143
)
 
(8
)
 
(402
)
 
(30
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
11,694
 
$
643
 
$
9,434
 
$
697
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(4,000
)
 
(220
)
 
(2,330
)
 
(172
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
7,694
 
$
423
 
$
7,104
 
$
525
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Creston Mascota mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore processed (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
212
 
 
 
 
 
361
 

 Production costs
 
$

11,837
 
$

56
 
$

9,836
 
$

27
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(v)
 
 
(361
)
 
(2
)
 
(702
)
 
(2
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs
 
$
11,476
 
$
54
 
$
9,134
 
$
25
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 21

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

 

La India mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
22,926
 
 
 
 
 
22,988
 

 Production costs
 
$

20,050
 
$

875
 
$

17,739
 
$

772
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(1,873
)
 
(82
)
 
479
 
 
21
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
18,177
 
$
793
 
$
18,218
 
$
793
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(332
)
 
(15
)
 
(759
)
 
(34
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
17,845
 
$
778
 
$
17,459
 
$
759
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

La India mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore processed (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
1,534
 
 
 
 
 
1,451
 

 Production costs
 
$

20,050
 
$

13
 
$

17,739
 
$

12
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(v)
 
 
(2,238
)
 
(1
)
 
(388
)
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs
 
$
17,812
 
$
12
 
$
17,351
 
$
12
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Notes: 

(i)The
information set out in this table reflects the Company's 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine.
(ii)The
total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold
producers. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is reported on both a by-product basis (deducting by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting
by-product metal revenues). The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis is calculated by adjusting production costs as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated
statements of (loss) income for by-product revenues, inventory production costs, smelting, refining and marketing charges and other adjustments, and then dividing by the number of ounces of gold
produced. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis is calculated in the same manner as the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis except that no
adjustment is made for by-product metal revenues. Accordingly, the calculation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis does not reflect a reduction in production costs or
smelting, refining and marketing charges associated with the production and sale of by-product metals. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is intended to provide information about the
cash-generating capabilities of the Company's mining operations. Management also uses these measures to monitor the performance of the Company's mining operations. As market prices for gold are quoted
on a per ounce basis, using the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis measure allows management to assess a mine's cash-generating capabilities at various gold prices.
Management is aware that these per ounce measures of performance can be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and, in the case of total cash costs of gold produced on a by-product basis,
by-product metal prices. Management compensates for these inherent limitations by using these measures in conjunction with minesite costs per tonne as well as other data prepared in accordance with
IFRS. Management also performs sensitivity analysis in order to quantify the effects of fluctuating metal prices and exchange rates.
(iii)Minesite
costs per tonne is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold producers. Minesite
costs per tonne are calculated by adjusting production costs as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income for inventory production costs and other adjustments, and
then dividing by tonnes of ore processed. As the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced can be affected by fluctuations in by-product metal prices and foreign exchange rates, management believes
that minesite costs per tonne provide additional information regarding the performance of mining operations, eliminating the impact of varying production levels. Management also uses this measure to
determine the economic viability of mining blocks. As each mining block is evaluated based on the net realizable value of each tonne mined, in order to be economically viable the estimated revenue on
a per tonne basis must be in excess of the minesite costs per tonne. Management is aware that this per tonne measure of performance can be impacted by fluctuations in processing levels and compensates
for this inherent limitation by using this measure in conjunction with production costs prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
 
 22

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 
 
 
(iv)Under
the Company's revenue recognition policy, revenue from contracts with customers is recognized upon the transfer of control over metals sold to the
customer. As total cash costs per ounce of gold produced are calculated on a production basis, an inventory adjustment is made to reflect the portion of production not yet recognized as revenue. Other
adjustments include primarily the addition of smelting, refining and marketing charges to production costs.
(v)This
inventory and other adjustments reflect production costs associated with the portion of production still in inventory and smelting, refining and
marketing charges associated with production.
(vi)The
Canadian Malartic mine's cost calculations per ounce of gold produced for the three months ended March 31, 2020 exclude 2,974 ounces of
payable gold production which were produced during this period as commercial production at the Barnat deposit has not yet been achieved.
(vii)The
Canadian Malartic mine's cost calculations per tonne for the three months ended March 31, 2020 exclude 135,065 tonnes which were
processed during this period as commercial production at the Barnat deposit has not yet been achieved. 
 
 All-in Sustaining Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced 

The WGC is a non-regulatory market development organization for the gold industry. Although the WGC is not a mining industry regulatory organization,
it has worked closely with its member companies to develop relevant non-GAAP measures. The Company follows the guidance on all-in sustaining costs released by the WGC in November 2018. Adoption
of the all-in sustaining costs metric is voluntary and, notwithstanding the Company's adoption of the WGC's guidance, all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced reported by the Company may not
be comparable to data reported by other gold mining companies. The Company believes that this measure provides helpful information about operating performance. However, this non-GAAP measure should be
considered together with other data prepared in accordance with IFRS as it is not necessarily indicative of operating costs or cash flow measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

All-in
sustaining costs per ounce is used to show the full cost of gold production from current operations. The Company calculates all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product
basis as the aggregate of total cash costs per ounce on a by-product basis, sustaining capital expenditures (including capitalized exploration), general and administrative expenses (including stock
options), lease payments related to sustaining assets and reclamation expenses, and then dividing by the number of ounces of gold produced. The all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced on a
co-product basis is calculated in the same manner as the all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis, except that the total cash costs per ounce on a co-product basis is
used, meaning no adjustment is made for by-product metal revenues. The Company's methodology for calculating all-in sustaining costs per ounce may differ from the methodology used by other gold mining
companies that disclose all-in sustaining costs per ounce. The Company may change the methodology it uses to calculate all-in sustaining costs per ounce in the future. 

The
following table sets out a reconciliation of production costs to all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced for the three months ended March 31, 2020, and March 31, 2019 on
both a by-product basis (deducting by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting by-product metal revenues). 

23

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

Reconciliation of Production Costs to All-in Sustaining Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced 
 

(United States dollars per ounce of gold produced, except where noted)
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 Production costs per the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income (thousands of United States dollars)
 
$
356,102
 
$
276,893
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Adjusted gold production (ounces)(i)(ii)(iii)
 
 
408,392
 
 
380,630
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Production costs per ounce of adjusted gold production
 
$
872
 
$
727
 

 Adjustments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
17
 
 
(23
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (co-product basis)(v)
 
$
889
 
$
704
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(53
)
 
(81
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (by-product basis)(v)
 
$
836
 
$
623
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Adjustments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Sustaining capital expenditures (including capitalized exploration)
 
 
177
 
 
128
 

 General and administrative expenses (including stock options)
 
 
75
 
 
76
 

 Non-cash reclamation provision, sustaining leases and other
 
 
11
 
 
9
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 All-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced (by-product basis)
 
$
1,099
 
$
836
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
53
 
 
81
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 All-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced (co-product basis)
 
$
1,152
 
$
917
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 Notes: 

(i)Adjusted
gold production for the three months ended March 31, 2020 excludes 2,974 ounces of payable gold production at the Canadian Malartic
mine, which were produced prior to the achievement of commercial production at the Barnat deposit.
(ii)Adjusted
gold production for the three months ended March 31, 2019 excludes 17,582 ounces of payable gold production at the Meliadine mine,
which were produced prior to the achievement of commercial production.
(iii)Adjusted
gold production for the three months ended March 31, 2019 excludes 5 ounces of payable gold production at the Lapa mine, which were
credited to the Company as a result of final refining reconciliations following the cessation of mining and processing operations at the Lapa mine on December 31, 2018.
(iv)Under
the Company's revenue recognition policy, revenue from contracts with customers is recognized upon the transfer of control over metals sold to the
customer. As the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced are calculated on a production basis, an inventory adjustment is made to reflect the portion of production not yet recognized as revenue.
Other adjustments include primarily the addition of smelting, refining and marketing charges to production costs.
(v)The
total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold
producers. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is reported on both a by-product basis (deducting by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting
by-product metal revenues). The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis is calculated by adjusting production costs as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated
statements of (loss) income for by-product revenues, inventory production costs, smelting, refining and marketing charges and other adjustments, and then dividing by the number of ounces of gold
produced. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis is calculated in the same manner as the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis except that no
adjustment is made for by-product metal revenues. Accordingly, the calculation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis does not reflect a reduction in production costs or
smelting, refining and marketing charges associated with the production and sale of by-product metals. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is intended to provide information about the
cash-generating capabilities of the Company's mining operations. Management also uses these measures to monitor the performance of the Company's mining operations. As market prices for gold are quoted
on a per ounce basis, using the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis measure allows management to assess a mine's cash-generating capabilities at various gold prices.
Management is aware that these per ounce measures of performance can be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and, in the case of total cash costs of gold produced on a by-product basis,
by-product metal prices. Management compensates for these inherent limitations by using these measures in conjunction with minesite costs per tonne as well as other data prepared in accordance with
IFRS. Management also performs sensitivity analysis in order to quantify the effects of fluctuating metal prices and exchange rates. 
 
 24

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 Operating margin(i) by mine:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
$
45,194
 
$
65,202
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
10,851
 
 
5,079
 

 Lapa mine
 
 
—
 
 
2,033
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
35,160
 
 
24,964
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
3,813
 
 
19,030
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
57,226
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)
 
 
57,046
 
 
54,629
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
41,910
 
 
25,239
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
28,057
 
 
34,099
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
17,591
 
 
11,115
 

 La India mine
 
 
18,928
 
 
13,940
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total operating margin(i)
 
 
315,776
 
 
255,330
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
153,509
 
 
128,242
 

 Exploration, corporate and other
 
 
138,936
 
 
74,567
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Income before income and mining taxes
 
 
23,331
 
 
52,521
 

 Income and mining taxes expense
 
 
44,896
 
 
15,489
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net (loss) income for the period
 
$
(21,565
)
$
37,032
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net (loss) income per share — basic and diluted
 
$
(0.09
)
$
0.16
 

 Cash flows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash provided by operating activities
 
$
163,358
 
$
148,690
 

 Cash used in investing activities
 
$
(178,166
)
$
(227,606
)

 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
$
954,830
 
$
(33,454
)

 Realized prices:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Gold (per ounce)
 
$
1,579
 
$
1,303
 

 Silver (per ounce)
 
$
15.74
 
$
15.65
 

 Zinc (per tonne)
 
$
2,217
 
$
2,673
 

 Copper (per tonne)
 
$
5,410
 
$
6,087
 

 
 25

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 Payable production(iii):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Gold (ounces):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
55,223
 
 
77,433
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
14,464
 
 
12,988
 

 Lapa mine
 
 
—
 
 
5
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
33,883
 
 
34,454
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
49,341
 
 
43,502
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
69,975
 
 
17,582
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)
 
 
64,763
 
 
83,670
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
49,297
 
 
49,336
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
33,310
 
 
42,730
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
18,184
 
 
13,529
 

 La India mine
 
 
22,926
 
 
22,988
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total gold (ounces)
 
 
411,366
 
 
398,217
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Silver (thousands of ounces):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
160
 
 
197
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
3
 
 
2
 

 Lapa mine
 
 
—
 
 
1
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
1
 
 
—
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
20
 
 
22
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
6
 
 
1
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)
 
 
97
 
 
111
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
517
 
 
562
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
279
 
 
133
 

 La India mine
 
 
20
 
 
46
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total silver (thousands of ounces)
 
 
1,106
 
 
1,079
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Zinc (tonnes)
 
 
510
 
 
2,834
 

 Copper (tonnes)
 
 
749
 
 
808
 

 
 26

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 Payable metal sold:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Gold (ounces):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
38,273
 
 
89,857
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
14,258
 
 
8,222
 

 Lapa mine
 
 
—
 
 
3,777
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
34,740
 
 
33,811
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
58,581
 
 
46,668
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
70,979
 
 
3,210
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)(iv)
 
 
64,900
 
 
74,846
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
54,250
 
 
49,205
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
34,997
 
 
42,455
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
16,408
 
 
14,610
 

 La India mine
 
 
23,497
 
 
24,309
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total gold (ounces)
 
 
410,883
 
 
390,970
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Silver (thousands of ounces):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
175
 
 
186
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
2
 
 
2
 

 Lapa mine
 
 
—
 
 
2
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
22
 
 
23
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
8
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)(iv)
 
 
111
 
 
94
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
560
 
 
560
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
263
 
 
140
 

 La India mine
 
 
22
 
 
54
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total silver (thousands of ounces)
 
 
1,166
 
 
1,065
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Zinc (tonnes)
 
 
1,658
 
 
1,586
 

 Copper (tonnes)
 
 
754
 
 
764
 

 
 27

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced — co-product basis(v):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
$
806
 
$
705
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
847
 
 
677
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
558
 
 
558
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
1,650
 
 
918
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
801
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)(vi)
 
 
763
 
 
590
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
811
 
 
777
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
990
 
 
701
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
643
 
 
697
 

 La India mine
 
 
793
 
 
793
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Weighted average total cash costs per ounce of gold produced
 
$
889
 
$
704
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced — by-product basis(v):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
$
682
 
$
488
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
845
 
 
674
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
558
 
 
558
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
1,644
 
 
910
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
799
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)(vi)
 
 
734
 
 
572
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
810
 
 
775
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
747
 
 
494
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
423
 
 
525
 

 La India mine
 
 
778
 
 
759
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Weighted average total cash costs per ounce of gold produced
 
$
836
 
$
623
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Notes: 

(i)Operating
margin is calculated as revenues from mining operations less production costs.
(ii)The
information set out in this table reflects the Company's 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine.
(iii)Payable
production (a non-GAAP non-financial performance measure) is the quantity of mineral produced during a period contained in products that
are or will be sold by the Company, whether such products are sold during the period or held as inventories at the end of the period. Payable production for the three months ended March 31,
2020 includes 2,974 gold ounces at the Canadian Malartic mine which were produced during this period as commercial production at the Barnat deposit has not yet been achieved. Payable production
for the three months ended March 31, 2019 includes 17,582 gold ounces, which were produced prior to the achievement of commercial production at the Meliadine mine and
5 ounces of payable gold production at the Lapa mine, which were credited to the Company as a result of final refining reconciliations following the cessation of mining and processing
operations at the Lapa mine on December 31, 2018.
(iv)The
Canadian Malartic mine's payable metal sold excludes the 5.0% net smelter return royalty granted to Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd., in connection
with the Company's acquisition of its 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine.
(v)The
total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold
producers. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is reported on both a by-product basis (deducting 
 
 28

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 
 

by-product
metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting by-product metal revenues). The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis is calculated
by adjusting
production costs as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income for by-product revenues, inventory production costs, smelting, refining and marketing charges and other
adjustments, and then dividing by the number of ounces of gold produced. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis is calculated in the same manner as the total cash costs
per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis except that no adjustment is made for by-product metal revenues. Accordingly, the calculation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a
co-product basis does not reflect a reduction in production costs or smelting, refining and marketing charges associated with the production and sale of by-product metals. The total cash costs per
ounce of gold produced is intended to provide information about the cash-generating capabilities of the Company's mining operations. Management also uses these measures to monitor the performance of
the Company's mining operations. As market prices for gold are quoted on a per ounce basis, using the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis measure allows management to
assess a mine's cash-generating capabilities at various gold prices. Management is aware that these per ounce measures of performance can be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and, in the case
of total cash costs of gold produced on a by-product basis, by-product metal prices. Management compensates for these inherent limitations by using these measures in conjunction with minesite costs
per tonne as well as other data prepared in accordance with IFRS. Management also performs sensitivity analysis in order to quantify the effects of fluctuating metal prices and exchange rates. 

(vi)The
Canadian Malartic mine's cost calculations per ounce of gold produced for the three months ended March 31, 2020 exclude 2,974 ounces of
payable gold production which were produced during this period as commercial production at the Barnat deposit has not yet been achieved. 
 
 29

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended 
 

 
 
June 30,
2018 
 
September 30,
2018 
 
December 31,
2018 
 
March 31,
2019 
 
June 30,
2019 
 
September 30,
2019 
 
December 31,
2019 
 
March 31,
2020 
 

 Operating margin(i):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Revenues from mining operations
 
$
556,282
 
$
518,683
 
$
537,821
 
$
532,223
 
$
526,611
 
$
682,959
 
$
753,099
 
$
671,878
 

 Production costs
 
 
303,695
 
 
276,862
 
 
284,472
 
 
276,893
 
 
279,497
 
 
316,346
 
 
374,969
 
 
356,102
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total operating margin(i)
 
 
252,587
 
 
241,821
 
 
253,349
 
 
255,330
 
 
247,114
 
 
366,613
 
 
378,130
 
 
315,776
 

 Operating margin(i) by mine:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
74,517
 
 
65,405
 
 
58,697
 
 
65,202
 
 
66,902
 
 
93,223
 
 
111,865
 
 
45,194
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
334
 
 
2,402
 
 
5,600
 
 
5,079
 
 
8,882
 
 
12,238
 
 
12,954
 
 
10,851
 

 Lapa mine
 
 
6,303
 
 
1,467
 
 
3,868
 
 
2,033
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
18,686
 
 
17,837
 
 
19,318
 
 
24,964
 
 
25,126
 
 
33,197
 
 
31,200
 
 
35,160
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
21,001
 
 
32,816
 
 
27,985
 
 
19,030
 
 
9,244
 
 
9,227
 
 
3,303
 
 
3,813
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
15,033
 
 
50,323
 
 
61,970
 
 
57,226
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)
 
 
67,680
 
 
58,478
 
 
60,346
 
 
54,629
 
 
60,232
 
 
70,263
 
 
73,015
 
 
57,046
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
15,312
 
 
19,115
 
 
22,516
 
 
25,239
 
 
8,205
 
 
44,696
 
 
39,666
 
 
41,910
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
29,620
 
 
29,072
 
 
36,582
 
 
34,099
 
 
27,281
 
 
30,003
 
 
28,004
 
 
28,057
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
3,313
 
 
1,660
 
 
4,794
 
 
11,115
 
 
14,863
 
 
12,203
 
 
4,041
 
 
17,591
 

 La India mine
 
 
15,821
 
 
13,569
 
 
13,643
 
 
13,940
 
 
11,346
 
 
11,240
 
 
12,112
 
 
18,928
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total operating margin(i)
 
 
252,587
 
 
241,821
 
 
253,349
 
 
255,330
 
 
247,114
 
 
366,613
 
 
378,130
 
 
315,776
 

 Impairment loss (reversal)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
389,693
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(345,821
)
 
—
 

 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
138,469
 
 
143,859
 
 
137,235
 
 
128,242
 
 
124,203
 
 
143,293
 
 
150,319
 
 
153,509
 

 Exploration, corporate and other
 
 
73,710
 
 
79,502
 
 
113,694
 
 
74,567
 
 
80,091
 
 
83,864
 
 
69,687
 
 
138,936
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Income (loss) before income and mining taxes
 
 
40,408
 
 
18,460
 
 
(387,273
)
 
52,521
 
 
42,820
 
 
139,456
 
 
503,945
 
 
23,331
 

 Income and mining taxes expense
 
 
35,436
 
 
1,407
 
 
6,383
 
 
15,489
 
 
15,048
 
 
62,789
 
 
172,250
 
 
44,896
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) for the period
 
$
4,972
 
$
17,053
 
$
(393,656
)
$
37,032
 
$
27,772
 
$
76,667
 
$
331,695
 
$
(21,565
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) per share — basic
 
$
0.02
 
$
0.07
 
$
(1.68
)
$
0.16
 
$
0.12
 
$
0.32
 
$
1.39
 
$
(0.09
)

 Net income (loss) per share — diluted
 
$
0.02
 
$
0.07
 
$
(1.68
)
$
0.16
 
$
0.12
 
$
0.32
 
$
1.38
 
$
(0.09
)

 Cash flows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash provided by operating activities
 
$
120,087
 
$
137,573
 
$
140,284
 
$
148,690
 
$
126,301
 
$
349,233
 
$
257,468
 
$
163,358
 

 Cash used in investing activities
 
$
(201,405
)
$
(311,870
)
$
(336,376
)
$
(227,606
)
$
(233,238
)
$
(245,829
)
$
(167,211
)
$
(178,166
)

 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
$
340,498
 
$
(13,952
)
$
(18,099
)
$
(33,454
)
$
34,906
 
$
37,249
 
$
(28,091
)
$
954,830
 

 

Notes: 

(i)Operating
margin is calculated as revenues from mining operations less production costs.
(ii)The
information set out in this table reflects the Company's 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine. 
 
 30

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (thousands of United States dollars, except share amounts) (Unaudited) 
 

 
 
As at
March 31,
2020 
 
As at
December 31,
2019 
 

 ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Current assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
1,255,273
 
 $
321,897
 

 Short-term investments
 
 
8,149
 
 
 6,005
 

 Trade receivables (Note 5)
 
 
7,038
 
 
 8,320
 

 Inventories (Note 6)
 
 
558,042
 
 
 580,068
 

 Income taxes recoverable
 
 
248
 
 
 2,281
 

 Equity securities (Note 5)
 
 
76,214
 
 
 86,252
 

 Fair value of derivative financial instruments (Notes 5 and 14)
 
 
9,894
 
 
 9,519
 

 Other current assets (Note 7A)
 
 
148,924
 
 
 179,218
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total current assets
 
 
2,063,782
 
 
 1,193,560
 

 Non-current assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Goodwill
 
 
407,792
 
 
 407,792
 

 Property, plant and mine development (Notes 8 and 10)
 
 
7,024,966
 
 
 7,003,665
 

 Other assets (Note 7B)
 
 
199,390
 
 
 184,868
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total assets
 
$
9,695,930
 
 $
8,789,885
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Current liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
$
274,385
 
 $
345,572
 

 Reclamation provision
 
 
14,942
 
 
 12,455
 

 Interest payable
 
 
35,595
 
 
 16,752
 

 Income taxes payable
 
 
11,931
 
 
 26,166
 

 Lease obligations (Note 10)
 
 
13,567
 
 
 14,693
 

 Current portion of long-term debt (Note 9)
 
 
360,000
 
 
 360,000
 

 Fair value of derivative financial instruments (Notes 5 and 14)
 
 
36,956
 
 
 —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
747,376
 
 
 775,638
 

 Non-current liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Long-term debt (Note 9)
 
 
2,351,907
 
 
 1,364,108
 

 Lease obligations (Note 10)
 
 
95,050
 
 
 102,135
 

 Reclamation provision
 
 
435,981
 
 
 427,346
 

 Deferred income and mining tax liabilities
 
 
972,814
 
 
 948,142
 

 Other liabilities
 
 
52,204
 
 
 61,002
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
4,655,332
 
 
 3,678,371
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Common shares (Note 11):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Outstanding — 241,227,570 common shares issued, less 895,084 shares held in trust
 
 
5,611,517
 
 
 5,589,352
 

 Stock options (Notes 11 and 12)
 
 
180,173
 
 
 180,160
 

 Contributed surplus
 
 
37,254
 
 
 37,254
 

 Deficit
 
 
(716,902
)
 
 (647,330
)

 Other reserves
 
 
(71,444
)
 
 (47,922
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total equity
 
 
5,040,598
 
 
 5,111,514
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
9,695,930
 
 $
8,789,885
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Commitments and contingencies (Note 17)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 See accompanying notes

31

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF (LOSS) INCOME (thousands of United States dollars, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 REVENUES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Revenues from mining operations (Note 13)
 
 $
671,878
 
 $
532,223
 

 COSTS AND EXPENSES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Production(i)
 
 
 356,102
 
 
 276,893
 

 Exploration and corporate development
 
 
 29,643
 
 
 25,450
 

 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
 153,509
 
 
 128,242
 

 General and administrative
 
 
 30,543
 
 
 29,093
 

 Finance costs
 
 
 27,762
 
 
 25,766
 

 Loss (gain) on derivative financial instruments (Note 14)
 
 
 42,602
 
 
 (9,816
)

 Foreign currency translation loss
 
 
 3,846
 
 
 2,206
 

 Other expenses (Note 15)
 
 
 4,540
 
 
 1,868
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Income before income and mining taxes
 
 
 23,331
 
 
 52,521
 

 Income and mining taxes expense
 
 
 44,896
 
 
 15,489
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net (loss) income for the period
 
 $
(21,565
)
 $
37,032
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net (loss) income per share — basic and diluted (Note 11)
 
 $
(0.09
)
 $
0.16
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash dividends declared per common share
 
 $
0.20
 
 $
0.125
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Note: 

(i)Exclusive
of amortization, which is shown separately. 
 
 See accompanying notes

32

 
 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME (thousands of United States dollars) (Unaudited) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 Net (loss) income for the period
 
 $
(21,565
)
 $
37,032
 

 Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to net (loss) income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pension benefit obligations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Remeasurement (loss) gain on pension benefit obligations
 
 
 (355
)
 
 232
 

 Income tax impact
 
 
 133
 
 
 (87
)

 Equity securities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net change in fair value of equity securities at FVOCI
 
 
 (23,522
)
 
 (5,198
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 (23,744
)
 
 (5,053
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Other comprehensive loss for the period
 
 
 (23,744
)
 
 (5,053
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Comprehensive (loss) income for the period
 
 $
(45,309
)
 $
31,979
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 See accompanying notes

33

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) 
 
 

 
 
Common Shares
Outstanding 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Stock
Options 
 
Contributed
Surplus 
 
 
 
Other
Reserves 
 
Total
Equity 
 

 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Deficit 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2018
 
 
234,458,597
 
$
5,362,169
 
$
197,597
 
$
37,254
 
$
(988,913
)
$
(58,095
)
$
4,550,012
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
37,032
 
 
—
 
 
37,032
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
145
 
 
(5,198
)
 
(5,053
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
37,177
 
 
(5,198
)
 
31,979
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Transfer of gain on disposal of equity securities at FVOCI to deficit
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
510
 
 
(510
)
 
—
 

 Transactions with owners:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Shares issued under employee stock option plan (Notes 11 and 12A)
 
 
567,581
 
 
19,863
 
 
(4,316
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
15,547
 

 Stock options (Notes 11 and 12A)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,833
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,833
 

 Shares issued under incentive share purchase plan (Note 12B)
 
 
127,905
 
 
5,856
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5,856
 

 Shares issued under dividend reinvestment plan
 
 
91,579
 
 
3,728
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,728
 

 Dividends declared ($0.125 per share)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(29,186
)
 
—
 
 
(29,186
)

 Restricted Share Unit plan, Performance Share Unit plan, and Long Term Incentive Plan (Notes 11 and 12C,D)
 
 
(459,014
)
 
(17,665
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(17,665
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at March 31, 2019
 
 
234,786,648
 
$
5,373,951
 
$
200,114
 
$
37,254
 
$
(980,412
)
$
(63,803
)
$
4,567,104
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2019
 
 
239,619,035
 
$
5,589,352
 
$
180,160
 
$
37,254
 
$
(647,330
)
$
(47,922
)
$
5,111,514
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(21,565
)
 
—
 
 
(21,565
)

 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(222
)
 
(23,522
)
 
(23,744
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total comprehensive loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(21,787
)
 
(23,522
)
 
(45,309
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Transactions with owners:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Shares issued under employee stock option plan (Notes 11 and 12A)
 
 
683,688
 
 
34,634
 
 
(6,560
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
28,074
 

 Stock options (Notes 11 and 12A)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,573
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,573
 

 Shares issued under incentive share purchase plan (Note 12B)
 
 
144,605
 
 
5,855
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5,855
 

 Shares issued under dividend reinvestment plan
 
 
231,487
 
 
10,297
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
10,297
 

 Dividends declared ($0.20 per share)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(47,785
)
 
—
 
 
(47,785
)

 Restricted Share Unit plan, Performance Share Unit plan, and Long Term Incentive Plan (Notes 11 and 12C,D)
 
 
(346,329
)
 
(28,621
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(28,621
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at March 31, 2020
 
 
240,332,486
 
$
5,611,517
 
$
180,173
 
$
37,254
 
$
(716,902
)
$
(71,444
)
$
5,040,598
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 See accompanying notes

34

 
 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (thousands of United States dollars) (Unaudited) 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net (loss) income for the period
 
 $
(21,565
)
 $
37,032
 

 Add (deduct) adjusting items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
 153,509
 
 
 128,242
 

 Deferred income and mining taxes
 
 
 24,732
 
 
 (5,034
)

 Unrealized loss (gain) on currency and commodity derivatives (Note 14)
 
 
 38,432
 
 
 (9,328
)

 Stock-based compensation (Note 12)
 
 
 15,018
 
 
 14,875
 

 Foreign currency translation loss
 
 
 3,846
 
 
 2,206
 

 Other
 
 
 (9,185
)
 
 2,845
 

 Changes in non-cash working capital balances:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Trade receivables
 
 
 1,282
 
 
 (208
)

 Income taxes
 
 
 (22,130
)
 
 (17,344
)

 Inventories
 
 
 7,677
 
 
 16,212
 

 Other current assets
 
 
 11,923
 
 
 1,124
 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
 
 (58,690
)
 
 (38,033
)

 Interest payable
 
 
 18,509
 
 
 16,101
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash provided by operating activities
 
 
 163,358
 
 
 148,690
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Additions to property, plant and mine development (Note 8)
 
 
 (168,811
)
 
 (203,353
)

 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and mine development
 
 
 101
 
 
 265
 

 Net purchases of short-term investments
 
 
 (2,144
)
 
 (426
)

 Net proceeds from sale of equity securities and other investments (Note 7A)
 
 
 8,759
 
 
 908
 

 Purchases of equity securities and other investments (Note 7A)
 
 
 (16,071
)
 
 (25,000
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash used in investing activities
 
 
 (178,166
)
 
 (227,606
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Dividends paid
 
 
 (37,494
)
 
 (25,478
)

 Repayment of lease obligations
 
 
 (3,729
)
 
 (3,378
)

 Proceeds from Credit Facility (Note 9)
 
 
 1,000,000
 
 
 —
 

 Repurchase of common shares for stock-based compensation plans (Note 12)
 
 
 (35,930
)
 
 (24,070
)

 Proceeds on exercise of stock options (Note 12A)
 
 
 28,074
 
 
 15,547
 

 Common shares issued
 
 
 3,909
 
 
 3,925
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
 954,830
 
 
 (33,454
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 (6,646
)
 
 582
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the period
 
 
 933,376
 
 
 (111,788
)

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
 321,897
 
 
 301,826
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
 $
1,255,273
 
 $
190,038
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Interest paid
 
 $
7,232
 
 $
7,413
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Income and mining taxes paid
 
 $
46,127
 
 $
34,951
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 See accompanying notes

35

 

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless
otherwise indicated) (Unaudited) March 31, 2020 

 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION 

Agnico
Eagle Mines Limited ("Agnico Eagle" or the "Company") is principally engaged in the production and sale of gold, as well as related activities such as exploration and mine development. The
Company's mining operations are located in Canada, Mexico and Finland and the Company has exploration activities in Canada, Europe, Latin America and the United States. Agnico Eagle is a public
company incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada with its head and registered office located at 145 King Street East, Suite 400, Toronto, Ontario, M5C 2Y7.
The Company's common shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. Agnico Eagle sells its gold production into the world market. 

These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements were authorized for issuance by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") on April 30, 2020. 

 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

A)Statement of Compliance

The
accompanying condensed interim consolidated financial statements of Agnico Eagle have been prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standard 34 Interim Financial
Reporting ("IAS 34") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") in United States ("US") dollars. These condensed interim consolidated
financial statements do not include all of the disclosures required by International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") for annual audited consolidated financial statements. 

These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2019 annual audited consolidated financial statements, including the accounting policies and
notes thereto, included in the Annual Report and Annual Information Form/Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2019, which were prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

In
the opinion of management, these condensed interim consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal and recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the
financial position as at March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 and the results of operations and cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and
March 31, 2019. 

Operating
results for the three months ended March 31, 2020 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year ending December 31, 2020. 

B)Basis of Presentation

Overview

These
consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost method except for certain financial assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand, except where otherwise indicated. 

Subsidiaries

These
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Agnico Eagle and its consolidated subsidiaries. All intercompany balances, transactions, income and expenses and gains or losses have
been eliminated on consolidation. Subsidiaries are consolidated where Agnico Eagle has the ability to exercise control. Control of an investee exists when Agnico Eagle is exposed to variable returns
from the Company's involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts
and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the elements of control. 

Joint Arrangements

A
joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement between two or more
parties. This exists only when the decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns of the arrangement require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. 

A
joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties have joint control of the arrangement and have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. These
consolidated financial statements include the Company's interests in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the joint operations, from the date that joint control commenced. Agnico Eagle's
50% interest in each of Canadian Malartic Corporation ("CMC") and Canadian Malartic GP ("the Partnership"), the general partnership that holds the Canadian Malartic mine located in
Quebec, has been accounted for as a joint operation. 

36

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements follow the same accounting policies and methods of their application as the December 31, 2019 annual audited consolidated financial
statements. 

 4. SIGNIFICANT JUDGMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 

The
preparation of these condensed interim consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported
in the condensed interim consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the condensed interim consolidated financial
statements are reasonable; however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. The areas involving significant judgments, estimates and assumptions have been detailed in Note 4
to the Company's annual audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

 Uncertainty due to COVID-19 

The
duration and full financial effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is unknown at this time, as are the measures taken by governments, the Company or others to attempt to reduce the spread of
COVID-19. Any estimate of the length and severity of these developments is therefore subject to significant uncertainty, and accordingly estimates of the extent to which the COVID-19 may
materially and adversely affect the Company's operations, financial results and condition in future periods are also subject to significant uncertainty. To the extent that inputs and assumptions used
as at and for the three months ended March 31, 2020 to arrive at accounting estimates and asset values have changed during the period, whether as a result of the COVID-19 or otherwise, the
changes have been considered and reflected, where appropriate, in the condensed interim consolidated financial statements. These inputs and assumptions relate to, among other things, interest rates,
foreign exchange rates, cost of capital, commodity prices, and the amount and timing of future cash flows, while accounting judgments take into consideration the business and economic uncertainties
caused by the COVID-19 and by the future response of governments, the Company and others to those uncertainties. In the current environment, the inputs and assumptions and judgements are subject to
greater variability than normal, which could in the future significantly affect judgments, estimates and assumptions made by management as they relate to potential impact of the COVID-19 on
various financial accounts and note disclosures and could lead to a material adjustment to the carrying value of the assets or liabilities affected. The impact of current uncertainty on judgments,
estimates and assumptions extends but is not limited to the Company's valuation of the long-term assets (including the assessment for impairment and impairment reversal), estimation of reclamation
provisions, estimation of mineral reserves and mineral resources, and estimation of income and mining taxes. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. 

 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT 

Fair
value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. All assets and
liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the condensed interim consolidated financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, described, as follows, based on
the lowest-level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: 

Level 1 — Unadjusted
quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities; 

Level 2 — Quoted
prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the
asset or liability; and 

Level 3 — Prices
or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (supported by
little or no market activity). 

The
fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs and the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs. 

 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 

For
items that are recognized at fair value on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing their classification at the end
of each reporting period. 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair
value measurements. 

37

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Continued) 

The
Company's financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, restricted cash, trade receivables, equity securities, accounts payable and accrued
liabilities, long-term debt and derivative financial instruments. 

The
fair values of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their carrying values due to their short-term nature. 

The
following table sets out the Company's financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as at March 31, 2020 using the fair value hierarchy: 

 

 
 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 
Total 
 

 
 Financial assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Trade receivables
 
$
—
 
$
7,038
 
$
—
 
$
7,038
 

 
 Equity securities (FVOCI)
 
 
55,846
 
 
20,368
 
 
—
 
 
76,214
 

 
 Fair value of derivative financial instruments
 
 
—
 
 
9,894
 
 
—
 
 
9,894
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total financial assets
 
$
55,846
 
$
37,300
 
$
—
 
$
93,146
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Financial liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Fair value of derivative financial instruments
 
$
—
 
$
36,956
 
$
—
 
$
36,956
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total financial liabilities
 
$
—
 
$
36,956
 
$
—
 
$
36,956
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 Valuation Techniques 

 Trade Receivables 

Trade
receivables from provisional invoices for concentrate sales are valued using quoted forward rates derived from observable market data based on the month of expected settlement (classified within
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy). 

 Equity and Other Securities 

Equity
securities representing shares of publicly traded entities are recorded at fair value using quoted market prices (classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy). Equity
securities representing shares of non-publicly traded entities are recorded at fair value using external broker-dealer quotations corroborated by option pricing models (classified within
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy). 

 Derivative Financial Instruments 

Derivative
financial instruments classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy are recorded at fair value using external broker-dealer quotations corroborated by option pricing models
or option pricing models that utilize a variety of inputs that are a combination of quoted prices and market-corroborated inputs. 

 Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Measured and Recognized at Fair Value 

Long-term
debt is recorded on the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2020 at amortized cost. The fair value of long-term debt is determined by applying a discount rate,
reflecting the credit spread based on the Company's credit rating to future related cash flows which is categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. See Note 9. 

Lease
obligations are recorded on the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2020 at amortized cost. The fair value of lease obligations is the present value of the future
lease payments discounted at the Company's current incremental borrowing rate. It is remeasured when there is a change in the lease term, future lease payments or changes in the assessment of whether
the Company
will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option. The fair value of lease obligations is not materially different from the carrying amounts since the incremental borrowing rates used at the
initial recognition date are close to current market rates at March 31, 2020. 

38

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 6. INVENTORIES 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, impairment losses of $7.7 million (three months ended March 31, 2019 — $1.9 million)
were recorded within production costs to reduce the carrying value of inventories to their net realizable value. 

 7. OTHER ASSETS 

A)Other Current Assets

 

 
 
 
As at March 31,
2020 
 
As at December 31,
2019 
 

 
 Federal, provincial and other sales taxes receivable
 
$
58,720
 
$
78,841
 

 
 Prepaid expenses
 
 
71,498
 
 
70,986
 

 
 Financial asset at FVTPL(i)
 
 
—
 
 
9,119
 

 
 Other
 
 
18,706
 
 
20,272
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total other current assets
 
$
148,924
 
$
179,218
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Note:

(i)During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company sold its remaining financial asset classified as FVTPL. A realized loss on disposition of
the asset of $0.2 million was recognized in the other expenses line item in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income during the three months ended
March 31, 2020. 

 
 

B)Other Assets

 

 
 
 
As at March 31,
2020 
 
As at December 31,
2019 
 

 
 Non-current ore in stockpiles and on leach pads
 
$
161,037
 
$
145,675
 

 
 Non-current prepaid expenses
 
 
19,854
 
 
18,035
 

 
 Non-current other receivables
 
 
17,069
 
 
18,918
 

 
 Other
 
 
1,430
 
 
2,240
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total other assets
 
$
199,390
 
$
184,868
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND MINE DEVELOPMENT 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, $176.6 million of additions (year ended December 31, 2019 — $1,012.8 million) were
capitalized to property, plant and mine development. 

Total
borrowing costs capitalized to property, plant and mine development during the three months ended March 31, 2020 were approximately $0.4 million (year ended December 31,
2019 — $4.0 million) at a capitalization rate of 1.26% (year ended December 31, 2019 — 1.31%). 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company produced and sold pre-commercial production ounces from the Barnat deposit at the Canadian Malartic mine. The Company deducts revenues
from mining operations earned prior to commercial production from the cost of the related property, plant and mine development. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company earned
$4.8 million of pre-commercial production revenue (year ended December 31, 2019 — $91.1 million). 

Assets
with a net book value of $0.8 million were disposed of by the Company during the three months ended March 31, 2020 (year ended December 31,
2019 — $20.4 million), resulting in a loss on disposal of $0.7 million (year ended December 31,
2019 — $11.9 million) which was recorded in the other expenses line item in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income. 

See
Note 17 to these condensed interim consolidated financial statements for capital commitments. 

39

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 9. LONG-TERM DEBT 

The
following table sets out details of the Company's long-term debt as at March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019: 

 

 
 
 
 
 
As at March 31,
2020 
 
As at December 31,
2019 
 

 
 
 
Interest Rates 
 
Principal
Amount 
 
Deferred
Financing
Costs 
 
Carrying
Amount 
 
Fair Value 
 
Carrying
Amount 
 
Fair Value 
 

 
 Senior Notes
 
4.15%-6.77%
 
$
1,735,000
 
$
(19,222
)
$
1,715,778
 
$
1,843,766
 
$
1,728,346
 
$
1,883,114
 

 
 Credit Facility
 
Variable
 
 
1,000,000
 
 
(3,871
)
 
996,129
 
 
996,129
 
 
(4,238
)
 
(4,238
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total long-term debt
 
 
 
$
2,735,000
 
$
(23,093
)
$
2,711,907
 
$
2,839,895
 
$
1,724,108
 
$
1,878,876
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

The
following table sets out the long-term debt included in the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets: 

 

 
 
 
As at March 31,
2020 
 
As at December 31,
2019 
 

 
 Current portion of long-term debt
 
$
360,000
 
$
360,000
 

 
 Non-current portion of long-term debt
 
 
2,351,907
 
 
1,364,108
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total long-term debt
 
$
2,711,907
 
$
1,724,108
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 2020 Notes 

On
April 7, 2020, the Company closed a $200.0 million private placement of guaranteed senior unsecured notes (the "2020 Notes"). The 2020 Notes consist of $100.0 million
2.78% Series A Senior Notes due 2030 and $100.0 million 2.88% Series B Senior Notes due 2032. The other terms of the Notes are substantially the same as the terms of the
existing outstanding Notes of the Company. 

 Credit Facility 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, proceeds from the Credit Facility totaled $1,000.0 million and no repayments were made. There were no proceeds from the Credit Facility or
repayments during the three months ended March 31, 2019. As at March 31, 2020, $200.0 million was available for future drawdown under the Credit Facility (December 31,
2019 — $1,200.0 million). 

 10. LEASES 

The
Company is party to a number of contracts that contain a lease, most of which include office facilities, storage facilities, and various plant and equipment. Leases of low value assets, short term
leases and leases with variable payments proportional to the rate of use of the underlying asset do not give rise to a lease obligation and a right-of-use asset, and expenses are included in operating
costs in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income. 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company recognized the following amounts: 

•Amortization expense on right-of-use assets of $3.5 million
(2019 — $2.8 million) 

•Interest expense on lease obligations of $0.5 million
(2019 — $0.5 million) 

•Additions to right-of-use assets of $0.9 million (2019 — $3.6 million) 

40

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 11. EQUITY 

 Net (Loss) Income Per Share 

The
following table sets out the weighted average number of common shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted net (loss) income per share: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 
 Net (loss) income for the period
 
$
(21,565
)
$
37,032
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding — basic (in thousands)
 
 
240,222
 
 
234,570
 

 
 Add: Dilutive impact of common shares related to the RSU plan, PSU plan and LTIP
 
 
—
 
 
797
 

 
 Add: Dilutive impact of employee stock options
 
 
—
 
 
851
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding — diluted (in thousands)
 
 
240,222
 
 
236,218
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Net (loss) income per share — basic and diluted
 
$
(0.09
)
$
0.16
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Diluted
net (loss) income per share has been calculated using the treasury stock method. In applying the treasury stock method, outstanding employee stock options with an exercise price greater than
the average quoted market price of the common shares for the period outstanding are not included in the calculation of diluted net (loss) income per share as the impact would be anti-dilutive. 

For
the three months ended March 31, 2020, the impact of any additional shares issued under the employee stock option plan or related to the RSU plan, PSU plan or LTIP would have been
anti-dilutive as a result of the net loss recorded for the period. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, 3,703,299 employee stock options were excluded from the calculation of
diluted net income per share as their impact would have been anti-dilutive. 

 12. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

A)Employee Stock Option Plan ("ESOP")

The
following table sets out activity with respect to Agnico Eagle's outstanding stock options: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
 
Number of
Stock
Options 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price 
 
Number of
Stock
Options 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price 
 

 
 Outstanding, beginning of period
 
 
4,122,300
 
C$
54.86
 
 
6,361,265
 
C$
47.65
 

 
 Granted
 
 
1,561,150
 
 
79.98
 
 
2,118,850
 
 
55.10
 

 
 Exercised
 
 
(683,688
)
 
53.85
 
 
(567,581
)
 
36.45
 

 
 Forfeited
 
 
(38,125
)
 
67.22
 
 
(51,118
)
 
56.63
 

 
 Expired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(390
)
 
28.03
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Outstanding, end of period
 
 
4,961,637
 
C$
62.80
 
 
7,861,026
 
C$
50.41
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Options exercisable, end of period
 
 
2,330,735
 
C$
58.55
 
 
4,841,419
 
C$
46.74
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

The
average share price of Agnico Eagle's common shares during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was C$70.72 (2019 — C$56.16). 

41

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 12. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued) 

Agnico
Eagle estimated the fair value of stock options under the Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following weighted average assumptions: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 
 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
1.92%
 
 
2.23%
 

 
 Expected life of stock options (in years)
 
 
2.4
 
 
2.4
 

 
 Expected volatility of Agnico Eagle's share price
 
 
27.5%
 
 
30.0%
 

 
 Expected dividend yield
 
 
1.2%
 
 
1.2%
 

 
 

The
Company uses historical volatility to estimate the expected volatility of Agnico Eagle's share price. The expected term of stock options granted is derived from historical data on employee
exercise and post-vesting employment termination experience. 

Compensation
expense related to the ESOP amounted to $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 (2019 — $6.8 million). Of the
total compensation expense for the ESOP, nil was capitalized as part of the property, plant and mine development line item of the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets for the three months
ended March 31, 2020 (2019 — $0.6 million). 

B)Incentive Share Purchase Plan ("ISPP")

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, 144,605 common shares were subscribed for under the ISPP (2019 — 127,905) for a value of
$5.9 million (2019 — $5.9 million). The total compensation cost recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2020 related to the ISPP
was $2.0 million (2019 — $2.0 million). 

C)Restricted Share Unit ("RSU") Plan

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, 303,037 (2019 — 404,100) RSUs were granted with a grant date fair value of $18.4 million
(2019 — $16.3 million). In the first quarter of 2020, the Company funded the RSU plan by transferring $18.4 million
(2019 — $16.3 million) to an employee benefit trust that then purchased common shares of the Company in the open market. 

Compensation
expense related to the RSU plan was $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 (2019 — $4.0 million). Compensation
expense related to the RSU plan is included as part of the general and administrative line item of the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income. 

D)Performance Share Unit ("PSU") Plan

During
the three months ended March 31, 2020, 167,500 (2019 — 190,500) PSUs were granted. In the first quarter of 2020, the Company funded the PSU plan by
transferring $10.1 million (2019 — $7.7 million) to an employee benefit trust that then purchased common shares of the Company in the open market.
During the quarter, the Company purchased an additional 117,648 shares to fulfill the payout of its 2017 PSU grant. The Company funded the purchase by transferring $7.0 million to an
employee benefit trust that then purchased common shares of the Company in the open market. The purchase was treated as a treasury transaction and recognized directly in equity. 

Compensation
expense related to the PSU plan was $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 (2019 — $2.2 million). Compensation
expense related to the PSU plan is included as part of the general and administrative line item of the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income. 

42

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 13. REVENUES FROM MINING OPERATIONS 

The
Company has recognized the following amounts relating to revenue in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 
 Revenues from contracts with customers
 
$
672,978
 
$
531,907
 

 
 Provisional pricing adjustments on concentrate sales
 
 
(1,100
)
 
316
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total revenues from mining operations
 
$
671,878
 
$
532,223
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

The
following table sets out the disaggregation of revenues by metal: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 
 Revenues from contracts with customers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Gold
 
$
649,679
 
$
509,304
 

 
 Silver
 
 
18,897
 
 
17,077
 

 
 Zinc
 
 
1,054
 
 
2,585
 

 
 Copper
 
 
3,348
 
 
2,941
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total revenues from contracts with customers
 
$
672,978
 
$
531,907
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 14. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

 Currency Risk Management 

The
Company uses foreign exchange economic hedges to reduce the variability in expected future cash flows arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is primarily exposed to
currency fluctuations relative to the US dollar as a significant portion of the Company's operating costs and capital expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies; primarily the Canadian dollar,
the Euro and the Mexican peso. These potential currency fluctuations increase the volatility of, and could have a significant impact on, the Company's production costs and capital expenditures. The
economic hedges relate to a portion of the foreign currency denominated cash outflows arising from foreign currency denominated expenditures. 

As
at March 31, 2020, the Company had outstanding derivative contracts related to $1,603.9 million of 2020, 2021 and 2022 expenditures (December 31,
2019 — $252.0 million). The Company recognized mark-to-market adjustments in the loss (gain) on derivative financial instruments line item of the condensed
interim consolidated statements of (loss) income. The Company did not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements. 

Mark-to-market
gains and losses related to foreign exchange derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value based on broker-dealer quotations corroborated by option pricing models that
utilize period-end forward pricing of the applicable foreign currency to calculate fair value. 

The
Company's other foreign currency derivative strategies in 2020 and 2019 consisted mainly of writing US dollar call options with short maturities to generate premiums that would, in essence,
enhance the spot transaction rate received when exchanging US dollars for Canadian dollars and Mexican pesos. All of these derivative transactions expired prior to period-end such that no derivatives
were outstanding as at March 31, 2020 or December 31, 2019. The call option premiums were recognized in the loss (gain) on derivative financial instruments line item of the condensed
interim consolidated statements of (loss) income. 

 Commodity Price Risk Management 

To
mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating diesel fuel prices, the Company uses derivative financial instruments as economic hedges of the price risk on a portion of diesel fuel costs
associated primarily with its Nunavut's diesel fuel exposure as it relates to operating costs. There were derivative financial instruments outstanding as at March 31, 2020 relating to
48.3 million gallons of heating 

43

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 14. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) 

oil
(December 31, 2019 — 12.0 million). The related mark-to-market adjustments prior to settlement were recognized in the loss (gain) on derivative
financial instruments line item of the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income. The Company did not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements. 

Mark-to-market
gains and losses related to heating oil derivative financial instruments are based on broker-dealer quotations that utilize period end forward pricing to calculate fair value. 

The
following table sets out a summary of the amounts recognized in the loss (gain) on derivative financial instruments line item of the condensed interim consolidated statements of
(loss) income: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 
 Premiums realized on written foreign exchange call options
 
$
(585
)
$
(382
)

 
 Unrealized loss on warrants
 
 
1,863
 
 
25
 

 
 Realized loss (gain) on currency and commodity derivatives
 
 
2,892
 
 
(131
)

 
 Unrealized loss (gain) on currency and commodity derivatives
 
 
38,432
 
 
(9,328
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Loss (gain) on derivative financial instruments
 
$
42,602
 
$
(9,816
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 15. OTHER EXPENSES 

The
following table sets out a summary of the amounts recognized in the other expenses line item of the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2020 
 
2019 
 

 
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and mine development (Note 8)
 
$
664
 
$
2,099
 

 
 Interest income
 
 
(2,517
)
 
(1,239
)

 
 Temporary suspension costs due to COVID-19
 
 
3,949
 
 
—
 

 
 Other
 
 
2,444
 
 
1,008
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total other expenses
 
$
4,540
 
$
1,868
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

In
response to the Quebec Order issued on March 23, 2020 to close all non-essential businesses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company took steps to ramp down its mining and
exploration activities in the Abitibi region of Quebec (the LaRonde, LaRonde Zone 5, Goldex and Canadian Malartic mines and exploration properties). Each of these sites and properties has been
placed on temporary suspension until April 13, 2020, and minimal work was to take place during that time. The Company also reduced activities at the Meliadine mine and Meadowbank Complex in
Nunavut, which are serviced out of Quebec. 

Temporary
suspension costs include primarily payroll and other incidental costs associated with maintaining the sites and properties, and payroll costs associated with employees who were not working
during the period of reduced or suspended operations. 

All
other costs incurred during the period of temporary suspension or reduced operations such as payroll costs associated with employees working remotely and performing their regular duties were
recognized in the production, exploration and corporate development, and general and administrative lines in the condensed interim consolidated statements of (loss) income. 

44

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 16. SEGMENTED INFORMATION 
 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
 
Revenues from
Mining
Operations 
 
Production
Costs 
 
Exploration and
Corporate
Development 
 
Segment
Income
(Loss) 
 

 
 Northern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 LaRonde mine
 
$
65,830
 
$
(20,636
)
$
—
 
$
45,194
 

 
 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
22,643
 
 
(11,792
)
 
—
 
 
10,851
 

 
 Goldex mine
 
 
55,118
 
 
(19,958
)
 
—
 
 
35,160
 

 
 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
93,179
 
 
(89,366
)
 
(756
)
 
3,057
 

 
 Meliadine mine
 
 
111,481
 
 
(54,255
)
 
—
 
 
57,226
 

 
 Canadian Malartic joint operation
 
 
105,702
 
 
(48,656
)
 
(2,979
)
 
54,067
 

 
 Kittila mine
 
 
85,581
 
 
(43,671
)
 
—
 
 
41,910
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Northern Business
 
 
539,534
 
 
(288,334
)
 
(3,735
)
 
247,465
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Southern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
63,938
 
 
(35,881
)
 
—
 
 
28,057
 

 
 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
29,428
 
 
(11,837
)
 
—
 
 
17,591
 

 
 La India mine
 
 
38,978
 
 
(20,050
)
 
—
 
 
18,928
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Southern Business
 
 
132,344
 
 
(67,768
)
 
—
 
 
64,576
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Exploration
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(25,908
)
 
(25,908
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Segment totals
 
$
671,878
 
$
(356,102
)
$
(29,643
)
$
286,133
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total segments income
 
$
286,133
 

 
 Corporate and other:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
(153,509
)

 
 General and administrative
 
 
(30,543
)

 
 Finance costs
 
 
(27,762
)

 
 Loss on derivative financial instruments
 
 
(42,602
)

 
 Foreign currency translation loss
 
 
(3,846
)

 
 Other expenses
 
 
(4,540
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Income before income and mining taxes
 
$
23,331
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 45

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 16. SEGMENTED INFORMATION (Continued) 
 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 
 

 
 
 
Revenues from
Mining
Operations 
 
Production
Costs 
 
Exploration and
Corporate
Development 
 
Segment
Income
(Loss) 
 

 
 Northern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 LaRonde mine
 
$
127,005
 
$
(61,803
)
$
—
 
$
65,202
 

 
 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
10,754
 
 
(5,675
)
 
—
 
 
5,079
 

 
 Lapa mine
 
 
4,877
 
 
(2,844
)
 
—
 
 
2,033
 

 
 Goldex mine
 
 
44,038
 
 
(19,074
)
 
—
 
 
24,964
 

 
 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
60,935
 
 
(41,905
)
 
(488
)
 
18,542
 

 
 Canadian Malartic joint operation
 
 
104,388
 
 
(49,759
)
 
(49
)
 
54,580
 

 
 Kittila mine
 
 
63,839
 
 
(38,600
)
 
—
 
 
25,239
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Northern Business
 
 
415,836
 
 
(219,660
)
 
(537
)
 
195,639
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Southern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
63,757
 
 
(29,658
)
 
—
 
 
34,099
 

 
 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
20,951
 
 
(9,836
)
 
—
 
 
11,115
 

 
 La India mine
 
 
31,679
 
 
(17,739
)
 
—
 
 
13,940
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Southern Business
 
 
116,387
 
 
(57,233
)
 
—
 
 
59,154
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Exploration
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(24,913
)
 
(24,913
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Segment totals
 
$
532,223
 
$
(276,893
)
$
(25,450
)
$
229,880
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total segments income
 
$
229,880
 

 
 Corporate and other:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
(128,242
)

 
 General and administrative
 
 
(29,093
)

 
 Finance costs
 
 
(25,766
)

 
 Gain on derivative financial instruments
 
 
9,816
 

 
 Foreign currency translation loss
 
 
(2,206
)

 
 Other expenses
 
 
(1,868
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Income before income and mining taxes
 
$
52,521
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 46

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 16. SEGMENTED INFORMATION (Continued) 

The
following table sets out total assets by segment: 

 

 
 
 
Total Assets as at 
 

 
 
 
March 31,
2020 
 
December 31,
2019 
 

 
 Northern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 LaRonde mine
 
$
814,108
 
$
794,503
 

 
 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
65,796
 
 
66,553
 

 
 Lapa mine
 
 
4,055
 
 
4,128
 

 
 Goldex mine
 
 
294,709
 
 
295,139
 

 
 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
879,305
 
 
883,422
 

 
 Meliadine mine
 
 
2,135,708
 
 
2,139,845
 

 
 Canadian Malartic joint operation
 
 
1,565,784
 
 
1,548,564
 

 
 Kittila mine
 
 
1,342,074
 
 
1,317,322
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Northern Business
 
 
7,101,539
 
 
7,049,476
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Southern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
528,028
 
 
521,713
 

 
 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
22,882
 
 
28,833
 

 
 La India mine
 
 
260,709
 
 
264,498
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Southern Business
 
 
811,619
 
 
815,044
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Exploration
 
 
473,786
 
 
462,789
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Corporate and other
 
 
1,308,986
 
 
462,576
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total assets
 
$
9,695,930
 
$
8,789,885
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

As
part of its ongoing business and operations, the Company has been required to provide assurance in the form of letters of credit for environmental and site restoration costs, custom credits,
government grants and other general corporate purposes. As at March 31, 2020, the total amount of these guarantees was $386.5 million. 

As
at March 31, 2020 the Company had $100.5 million of commitments related to capital expenditures. 

 18. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 

 Dividends Declared 

On
April 30, 2020, Agnico Eagle announced that the Board approved the payment of a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per common share (a total value of approximately
$48.2 million), payable on June 15, 2020 to holders of record of the common shares of the Company on June 1, 2020. 

 COVID-19 Developments 

In
response to a Quebec Order by the Government of Quebec to close all non-essential businesses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company took steps to ramp down its operations in the
Abitibi region of Quebec (the LaRonde, LaRonde Zone 5, Goldex and Canadian Malartic mines). During the period, each of the Quebec operations was placed on temporary suspension, and minimal work
took place. The Company also reduced activities at the Meliadine mine and Meadowbank Complex in Nunavut, which are serviced out of Quebec, and suspended exploration activities in Canada. Certain costs
incurred during the period of suspended or reduced operations for the three months ended March 31, 2020 are included in the other expenses line item of the condensed interim consolidated
statements of (loss) income (see Note 15). On April 15, 2020, the Government of Quebec lifted the restrictions on mining operations and the Company took steps to restart
operations in the Abitibi region with the plan to ramp up production gradually over a period of time. 

47

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2020 

 18. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (Continued) 

On
April 2, 2020 the Government of Mexico issued a decree (the "Decree") relating to the COVID-19 pandemic requiring that all non-essential businesses suspend operations until
April 30, 2020. In response to the Decree, mining operations at the Company's Mexico operations (Pinos Altos, Creston Mascota and La India mines) were ramped down. Most of the activity at these
operations was suspended. On April 17, 2020 the Government of Mexico extended the suspension of non-essential businesses until May 30, 2020 with the possibility of earlier re-start on
May 18, 2020 for businesses located in areas with few COVID-19 cases. The Company's mining operations and the exploration activities in Mexico remain suspended. 

There
are significant uncertainties with respect to future developments and impact to the Company related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the duration, severity and scope of the outbreak
and the measures taken by governments the Company and others to contain the pandemic. As a cautionary measure given the prevailing uncertainty, in March 2020, the Company drew down
$1,000.0 million on its $1,200.0 million Credit Facility. Subsequently to the end of the first quarter of 2020, in late April 2020, based on existing market conditions and the
timing of the production ramp up of its operating mines, the Company repaid $500.0 million outstanding on its Credit Facility. After the repayment, $700.0 million was available for
future drawdown under the Credit Facility. 

48

 

QuickLinks

Exhibit 99.1

First Quarter Report 2020

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (thousands of United States dollars, except where noted)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (thousands of United States dollars, except where noted)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (thousands of United States dollars, except share amounts) (Unaudited)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF (LOSS) INCOME (thousands of United States dollars, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)
AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME (thousands of United States dollars) (Unaudited)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited)
AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (thousands of United States dollars) (Unaudited)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated) (Unaudited) March 31,
2020