EX-99.1
2
tm2525658d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

Stock Symbol:AEM (NYSE and TSX)

 

For further information:Investor Relations

 (416) 947-1212

 

AGNICO EAGLE ANNOUNCES DISPOSITION OF ITS INTEREST
IN
ORLA MINING LTD.

 

Toronto (September 9,
2025) – Agnico Eagle Mines Limited (NYSE: AEM, TSX: AEM) (“Agnico Eagle” or the “Company”) announced
today that it sold 38,002,589 common shares (“Common Shares”) of Orla Mining Ltd. (“Orla”) in a sale to buyers
in Canada, the United States and elsewhere through the facilities of the Toronto Stock Exchange at a price of C$14.75 per Common Share
for total consideration of C$560,538,188 (the “Disposition”).

 

“Our investment in Orla has been mutually
beneficial for both companies. With Orla’s success in evolving into an established intermediate producer and in the context of
the current gold market, we believe it is the right time to monetize our investment. This demonstrates our commitment to disciplined
capital allocation and allows us to redeploy capital to our strategic priorities,” said Ammar Al-Joundi, Agnico Eagle’s President
and Chief Executive Officer. “We would like to thank Orla’s management team and board of directors and congratulate them
on their success in creating significant value for shareholders.”

 

Immediately prior to the Disposition, Agnico
Eagle had beneficial ownership of, or control or direction over, 38,002,589 Common Shares, representing approximately 11.3% of the issued
and outstanding Common Shares on a non-diluted basis. After giving effect to the Disposition, Agnico Eagle does not have beneficial ownership
of, or control or direction over, any Common Shares.

 

Agnico Eagle focuses on its high-quality internal
growth projects and complements its pipeline of projects with a strategy of acquiring strategic toehold positions in prospective opportunities
with high geological potential. Recognizing the strength of Orla’s team and the potential of its advanced exploration asset, the
Company invested at an early stage and has been a supportive shareholder since Orla was established in 2017. Since then, Orla has transformed
from a developer into an established mid-tier producer, led by an accomplished management team and is well-positioned to broaden its
shareholder base.

 

Agnico Eagle reviews its toe-hold investments
against its strategic priorities on a periodic basis and may, from time to time, divest certain holdings. Agnico Eagle completed the
Disposition in order to monetize its investment in Orla and does not currently have any intention to acquire Common Shares or other securities
of Orla.

 

“Since our modest beginnings in 2017 as
a junior exploration company, Orla has been fortunate to count cornerstone shareholders like Agnico Eagle among our strongest supporters.
Thanks, in no small part, to Agnico Eagle’s technical expertise and financial backing, we have now grown into a mid-tier gold producer.
This mutually beneficial next step allows Orla to broaden our investor base and enhance long-term liquidity. On behalf of all Orla stakeholders,
we extend our sincere thanks to the team at Agnico Eagle for their support and contribution to our success,” said Jason Simpson,
Orla Mining’s President and Chief Operating Officer.

 

 
 
 

 

An early warning report will be filed by Agnico
Eagle in accordance with applicable securities laws. To obtain a copy of the early warning report, please contact:

 

Agnico Eagle Mines Limited

c/o Investor Relations

145 King Street East, Suite 400

Toronto, Ontario M5C 2Y7

Telephone: 416-947-1212

Email: investor.relations@agnicoeagle.com

 

Agnico Eagle is a senior gold mining company
organized under the laws of the Province of Ontario and its head office is located at 145 King Street East, Suite 400, Toronto, Ontario
M5C 2Y7. Orla’s head office is located at 1010-1075 W. Georgia St., Vancouver, British Columbia V6E 3C9.

 

About Agnico Eagle

 

Canadian-based and led, Agnico Eagle is Canada's
largest mining company and the second largest gold producer in the world. It produces precious metals from operations in Canada, Australia,
Finland and Mexico and has a pipeline of high-quality exploration and development projects. Agnico Eagle is a partner of choice within
the mining industry, recognized globally for its leading sustainability practices. Agnico Eagle was founded in 1957 and has consistently
created value for its shareholders, declaring a cash dividend every year since 1983.

 

Forward-Looking Statements

 

The information in this news release has been
prepared as at September 9, 2025. Certain statements in this news release,
referred to herein as “forward-looking statements”, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning
of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” under the provisions
of Canadian provincial securities laws. These statements can be identified by the use of words such as “may”, “will”
or similar terms.

 

Forward-looking statements in this news release
include, without limitation, statements relating to Agnico Eagle’s acquisition or disposition of securities of Orla in the future.

 

Forward-looking statements are necessarily based
upon a number of factors and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by Agnico Eagle as of the date of such statements, are inherently
subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies. Many factors, known and unknown, could cause
actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Other than as required by law, Agnico
Eagle does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements.

 

 2