EX-99.1
2
tm2311183d2_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit
99.1

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teck
 Resources Limited
 TSX:
 TECK.A, TECK.B
 NYSE:
 TECK
 www.teck.com
 Agnico
 Eagle Mines Limited
 TSX:
 AEM
 NYSE:
 AEM
 www.agnicoeagle.com
 

 

News
Release

 

 
 For
 Immediate Release
 23-26-TR
 Date:
 April 6, 2023
 
 

Teck
and Agnico Eagle Announce Completion
of the San Nicolás Copper-Zinc Project Joint Venture

 

Vancouver,
B.C. and Toronto, ON – Agnico Eagle Mines Limited (TSX and NYSE: AEM) (“Agnico Eagle”) and Teck Resources Limited
(TSX: TECK.A and TECK.B, NYSE: TECK) (“Teck”) announced today that the previously announced joint venture transaction between
Teck and Agnico Eagle to advance the San Nicolás copper-zinc development project has closed. Teck and Agnico Eagle have entered
into a joint venture shareholders agreement whereby Agnico Eagle, through a wholly-owned Mexican subsidiary, has agreed to subscribe
for a 50% interest in Minas de San Nicolás, S.A.P.I. de C.V. (“MSN”) for US$580 million, to be contributed as study
and development costs are incurred by MSN. For governance purposes, Agnico Eagle is deemed to be a 50% shareholder of MSN from closing,
regardless of the number of shares that have been issued to Agnico Eagle or its subsidiary.

 

Teck
and Agnico Eagle are now 50/50 joint venture partners at San Nicolás, working together to advance permitting and development of
the high-quality copper-zinc San Nicolás project located in Zacatecas, Mexico. The joint venture partners are planning to submit
an Environmental Impact Assessment and Permit application for San Nicolás in the first half of 2023 and are targeting completion
of a feasibility study in early 2024. Concluding the San Nicolás joint venture, initiating permitting, and completing the next
stage of technical studies, is another positive step in Teck’s strategy to advance its industry leading Copper Growth portfolio
in a timely and prudent manner and for Agnico Eagle in leveraging its Mexican operating experience and know-how to pursue growth in a
high-quality, copper-zinc mineral deposit located in a premier mining jurisdiction in Mexico.

 

Forward
Looking Statements

 

This
press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Unites States Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 and forward-looking information as defined in the Securities Act (Ontario). Forward-looking statements and information
are statements other than historical fact and can be identified by statements that certain actions, events or results “may”,
“could”, “should”, “would”, “might” or “will” be taken, occur or achieved.
Forward-looking statements and information involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual
results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements in this release include statements concerning: the expectations regarding the timeline for initiating permitting
and development of San Nicolás and the timing of completion of any technical studies.

 

Forward-looking
statements and information are made based upon certain assumptions, including but not limited to, assumptions that San Nicolás
can and will be developed in accordance with MSN’s current plans. Factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements
to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, among others, MSN’s ability to advance permitting and
development of San Nicolás, including challenges to our permits, risks related to mineral reserves and resources estimation and
metallurgical recoveries, development risks, regulatory restrictions (including environmental regulatory restrictions and liability),
and activities by governmental authorities.

 

 
 
 

 

The
foregoing list of important factors and assumptions is not exhaustive. Other events or circumstances could cause actual results to differ
materially from those estimated or implied by our forward-looking statements and information. Certain of these risks are described in
more detail in each of Agnico’s and Teck’s 2022 Annual Information Form and Form 40-F and in subsequent public filings by
Agnico and/or Teck with Canadian securities administrators and the US Securities and Exchange Commission. None of Agnico, Teck or MSN
assume any obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements and information after the date of this document or to revise
them to reflect the occurrence of future unanticipated events, except as required under applicable securities laws.

 

About
Teck

 

As
one of Canada’s leading mining companies, Teck is committed to responsible mining and mineral development with major business units
focused on copper, zinc, and steelmaking coal. Copper, zinc, and high-quality steelmaking coal are required for the transition to a low-carbon
world. Headquartered in Vancouver, Canada, Teck’s shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbols TECK.A and
TECK.B and the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TECK. Learn more about Teck at www.teck.com or follow @TeckResources.

 

About
Agnico Eagle

 

Agnico
Eagle is a senior Canadian gold mining company, producing precious metals from operations in Canada, Australia, Finland and Mexico. It
has a pipeline of high-quality exploration and development projects in these countries as well as in the United States. Agnico Eagle
is a partner of choice within the mining industry, recognized globally for its leading environmental, social and governance practices.
Agnico Eagle was founded in 1957 and has consistently created value for its shareholders, declaring a cash dividend every year since
1983.

 

Teck
Media Contact:

Chris
Stannell

Public
Relations Manager

604.699.4368

chris.stannell@teck.com

 

Teck
Investor Contact:

Fraser
Phillips

Senior
Vice President, Investor Relations & Strategic Analysis

604.699.4621
fraser.phillips@teck.com

 

Agnico
Eagle Investor Contact:

Jean-Marie
Clouet

Corporate
Director, Investor Relations

416.457.9464

jeanmarie.clouet@agnicoeagle.com

 

 2