EX-99.1
2
a2243227zex-99_1.htm
EX-99.1

QuickLinks
 -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document

 
 
 Exhibit 99.1 

 

 

 

 
 
First Quarter Report 2021 
 

 

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 

This Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") dated April 29, 2021 of Agnico Eagle Mines Limited ("Agnico Eagle" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with the Company's
condensed interim consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2021 that were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"),
International Accounting Standard 34 Interim Financial Reporting ("IAS 34") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB").
This MD&A should also be read in conjunction with the Company's annual Management's Discussion and Analysis ("Annual MD&A") and annual consolidated financial statements ("Annual Financial Statements")
filed with Canadian securities regulators and included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2020 (the "Form 40-F"), prepared in
accordance with IFRS. The condensed interim
consolidated financial statements and this MD&A are presented in United States dollars ("US dollars", "$" or "US$") and all units of measurement are expressed using the metric system,
unless otherwise specified. Certain information in this MD&A is presented in Canadian dollars ("C$"), Mexican pesos or European Union euros ("Euros" or "€"). Additional information
relating to the Company is included in the Company's Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2020 (the "AIF"). The AIF, Annual MD&A and Annual Financial Statements are
available on the Canadian Securities Administrators' (the "CSA") SEDAR website at www.sedar.com and the Form 40-F is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at
www.sec.gov/edgar. 

 Forward Looking Statements 

Certain statements contained in this MD&A constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information" under the provisions of Canadian provincial securities laws and are referred to herein as "forward-looking statements". All statements,
other than statements of historical fact, that address circumstances, events, activities or developments that could, may or will occur are forward-looking statements. When used in this MD&A, the words
"anticipate", "could", "estimate", "expect", "forecast", "future", "plan", "possible", "potential", "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements
include, without limitation:

•statements regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and its
variants on the Company's future operations, including its employees and overall business; 
•statements regarding the Company's forward-looking production outlook, including estimated ore grades, recovery rates,
project timelines, drilling results, metal production, life of mine estimates, total cash costs per ounce, all-in sustaining costs per ounce, minesite costs per tonne, other expenses, and
cash flows; 
•statements regarding the estimated timing and conclusions of technical studies and evaluations; 
•statements regarding the methods by which ore will be extracted or processed; 
•statements concerning the Company's expansion plans at the Kittila mine, Meliadine mine's Phase 2 project, the
Amaruq underground project and the Odyssey project, including the timing, funding, completion and commissioning thereof; 
•statements about the Company's plans at the Hope Bay mine; 
•statements about the potential for the Hope Bay mine to be a 250,000 to 300,000 ounce per year operation; 
•statements concerning other expansion projects, recovery rates, mill throughput, optimization and projected exploration,
including costs and other estimates upon which such projections are based; 

1

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

•statements regarding timing and amounts of capital expenditures, other expenditures and other cash needs, financing costs
and expectations as to the funding or reductions thereof; 
•statements regarding estimates of future mineral reserves, mineral resources, effect of drill results on future mineral
reserves and mineral resources, mineral production, and sales; 
•statements regarding the projected development of certain ore deposits, including estimates of exploration, development
and production and other capital costs and estimates of the timing of such exploration, development and production or decisions with respect to such exploration, development and production; 
•statements regarding the Company's ability to obtain the necessary permits and authorizations in connection with its
proposed or current exploration, development and mining operations and the anticipated timing thereof; 
•statements regarding anticipated future exploration; 
•statements regarding the anticipated timing of events with respect to the Company's mine sites; 
•statements regarding the sufficiency of the Company's cash resources; 
•statements regarding future activity with respect to the Company's unsecured revolving bank credit facility; 
•statements regarding future dividend amounts and payment dates; and 
•statements regarding anticipated trends with respect to the Company's operations, exploration and the funding thereof. 

Such
statements reflect the Company's views as at the date of this MD&A and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements.
Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon a number of factors and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by Agnico Eagle as of the date of this MD&A, are inherently subject to
significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies. The material factors and assumptions used in the preparation of the forward looking statements contained herein, which
may prove to be incorrect, include the assumptions set forth herein and in the Company's Annual MD&A and AIF filed with Canadian securities regulators and that are included in the Form 40-F
filed with the SEC as well as: that governments, the Company or others do not take additional measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise that, individually or in the aggregate,
materially affect the Company's ability to operate its business; that cautionary measures taken in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic do not affect productivity; that measures taken relating
to, or other effects of, the COVID-19 pandemic do not affect the Company's ability to obtain necessary supplies and deliver them to its mine sites; that there are no other significant
disruptions affecting operations; that production, permitting, development, expansion and the ramp up of operations at
each of Agnico Eagle's properties proceeds on a basis consistent with current expectations and plans; that the relevant metal prices, foreign exchange rates and prices for key mining and construction
supplies will be consistent with Agnico Eagle's expectations; that Agnico Eagle's current estimates of mineral reserves, mineral resources, mineral grades and metal recovery are accurate; that there
are no material delays in the timing for completion of ongoing growth projects; that seismic activity at the Company's operations at the LaRonde and Goldex mines and other properties is as expected by
the Company; that the Company's current plans to optimize production are successful; and that there are no material variations in the current tax and regulatory environment. 

Many
factors, known and unknown, could cause the actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, but are not limited
to: the extent 

2

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

and
manner to which COVID-19, and measures taken by governments, the Company or others to attempt to reduce the spread of COVID-19, may affect the Company, whether directly or through effects on
employee health, workforce productivity and availability (including the ability to transport personnel to the Meadowbank Complex, Meliadine mine and Hope Bay mine which operate as fly-in/fly-out
camps), travel restrictions, contractor availability, supply availability, ability to sell or deliver gold dore bars or concentrate, availability of insurance and the cost thereof, the ability to
procure inputs required for the Company's operations and projects or other aspects of the Company's business; uncertainties with respect to the effect on the global economy associated with the
COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken to reduce the spread of COVID-19, any of which could continue to negatively affect financial markets, including the trading price of the Company's shares
and the price of gold, and could adversely affect the Company's ability to raise capital; the volatility of prices of gold and other metals; uncertainty of mineral reserves, mineral resources, mineral
grades and mineral recovery estimates; uncertainty of future production, project development, capital expenditures and other costs; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; financing of additional capital
requirements; cost of exploration and development programs; seismic activity at the Company's operations, including the LaRonde and Goldex mines; mining risks; community actions or protests, including
by First Nations groups; risks associated with foreign operations; governmental and environmental regulation; the volatility of the Company's stock price; and risks associated with the Company's
currency, fuel and by-product metal derivative strategies. 

For
a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors that may affect the Company's ability to achieve the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements contained in this MD&A, see
the AIF and Annual MD&A as well as the Company's other filings with the Canadian securities regulators and the SEC. Other than as required by law, the Company does not intend, and does not assume any
obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. 

 Meaning of "including" and "such as": When used in this MD&A the terms "including" and "such as" mean including and such as, without limitation. 

 Business Overview 

Agnico Eagle is a senior Canadian gold mining company that has produced precious metals since its formation in 1972. The Company's mines are located
in Canada, Mexico and Finland, with exploration and development activities in Canada, Europe, Latin America and the United States. The Company and its shareholders have full exposure to gold
prices due to its long-standing policy of no forward gold sales. Agnico Eagle has declared a cash dividend every year since 1983. 

Agnico
Eagle earns a significant proportion of its revenue and cash flow from the production and sale of gold in both dore bar and concentrate form. The remainder of revenue and cash flow is generated
by the production and sale of by-product metals, primarily silver, zinc and copper. 

Agnico
Eagle's operating mines and development projects are located in what the Company believes to be politically stable countries that are supportive of the mining industry. The political stability
of the regions in which Agnico Eagle operates helps to provide confidence in its current and future prospects and profitability. This is important for Agnico Eagle as it believes that many of its
current mines and projects have long-term mining potential. 

 Recent Developments 

 Acquisition of TMAC Resources Inc. ("TMAC") 

On February 2, 2021, the Company completed the purchase of all the issued and outstanding common shares and equity instruments exchangeable
for common shares of TMAC which owned and operated the Hope Bay 

3

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

mine
and also owned exploration properties in the Kitikmeot region of Nunavut. The shares were acquired for approximately $226.0 million in cash consideration (C$2.20 per share). The results of
operations of TMAC and the Hope Bay mine have been included from the date of acquisition. 

Immediately
prior to the closing of the transaction and in accordance with its terms, TMAC retired its $134.0 million long-term debt using its own cash resources and the proceeds of an advance
of $105.0 million from the Company. The acquisition also triggered a one-time option for TMAC to buy-back a 1.5% net smelter return royalty on the Hope Bay property from Maverix
Metals Inc. which was exercised prior to closing for $50.0 million and the payment made shortly after the acquisition date. 

With
the acquisition of TMAC, the Company has acquired a 100% interest in the Hope Bay property, which is located in the Kitikmeot region of Nunavut, approximately 685 kilometres northeast of
Yellowknife and 125 kilometres southwest of Cambridge Bay. The land package includes the Hope Bay and Elu greenstone belts. The 80-kilometre long Hope Bay greenstone belt hosts three gold deposits
(Doris, Madrid and Boston) with historical mineral reserves and mineral resources and over 90 regional exploration targets. 

The
property contains significant infrastructure including:

•Underground mine development at the Doris deposit 
•A fully enclosed processing plant and a tailings impoundment area near Doris deposit 
•A gravel air strip near Doris deposit capable of handling Boeing 737 aircraft and a secondary gravel air strip near Boston
deposit 
•A port with a laydown facility and fuel storage at Roberts Bay 
•An all-weather road network, a diesel power plant and an office-accommodations complex 

The
Hope Bay mine has established relationships with Inuit residents and organizations and the Government of Nunavut. An Inuit Impact and Benefits Agreement is in place with the Kitikmeot Inuit
Association. Historically, a portion of the workforce has come from Nunavut and the Hope Bay mine was also successful in sourcing workers from across Canada, with a large component coming from Western
Canadian labour markets. 

In
2021, the Company expects to continue mining activities at the Doris deposit while undertaking camp-wide optimization efforts. The Company also plans to ramp up a property-wide exploration program
and evaluate the Madrid and Boston deposits for future production. 

 Impact of COVID-19 on the Company's Business and Operations 

In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus known as COVID-19 surfaced in Wuhan, China and has spread around the world, with resulting business
and social disruption. COVID-19 was declared a worldwide pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. The speed and extent of the spread of COVID-19 and its variants, and the
duration and intensity of resulting business disruption and related financial and social impact, are uncertain. Further, the extent and manner in which COVID-19, and measures taken by governments, the
Company or others to attempt to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and its variants, may affect the Company cannot be predicted with certainty. 

COVID-19
and these measures have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on many aspects of the Company's business including employee health, workforce productivity and availability, travel
restrictions, contractor availability, supply availability, ability to sell or deliver gold dore bars or concentrate, the Company's ability to maintain its controls and procedures regarding financial
and disclosure matters and the availability of insurance and the costs thereof, some of which, individually or when aggregated with other impacts, may be 

4

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

material
to the Company. Measures taken by governments, the Company or others could result in the Company reducing or suspending operations at one or more of its mines. 

In
the first quarter of 2020, in response to the order by the Government of Quebec (the "Quebec Order"), the Company took steps to ramp down its operations in the Abitibi region of Quebec (the
LaRonde, LaRonde Zone 5, Goldex and Canadian Malartic mines) and significantly reduce activities at the Meliadine mine and Meadowbank Complex in Nunavut. The Company also responded to the
decree issued by the Government of Mexico on April 2, 2020 (the "Decree") by ramping down mining operations at its Mexican operations (Pinos Altos, Creston Mascota and La India mines). With the
lifting of the Quebec Order and the Decree, the Company restarted operations at all the aforementioned sites, and ramped up production gradually to regular capacity over the course of the second
quarter of 2020. With the exception of the Nunavut-based workforce, most employees returned to work at some point during 2020 while the Company continued to reinforce screening and testing protocols
to detect COVID-19 cases prior to permitting entrance to its sites and to control the spread of the virus and its variants. 

In
the first quarter of 2021, none of the Company's operations were suspended or restricted. Although the Company believes the risk for business interruption remains low, unexpected interruptions
could still occur given the uncertainty surrounding the recurring wave of rising cases in certain regions where the Company operates. The Company identified the following notable
developments:

•in Abitibi, the Company continues to donate funds to local support groups and offer other in-kind support to local
communities; 
•in Nunavut, the Company launched the Digital Ambassador Program, a community-focused initiative to enhance the ability to
consult and engage with community members while also addressing digital challenges. The Company also participates in the Baker Lake Hot Meals program, providing meals to 20-40 community members on a
monthly basis. In the meantime, the Nunavut-based workforce continues to remain at home and there is currently no set date for their return to work. However, as the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines
is ongoing in local Nunavut communities, the Company is preparing to reintegrate the Nunavut-based workforce to its operations in the course of 2021, taking into account logistics, testing and health
protocols as well as training plans required to ensure a smooth and safe reintegration. The Company is in regular discussions with community leaders, the Nunavut chief medical officer and local
government officials to establish when and how a return to work could be accomplished while maintaining the safety of Nunavut communities; 
•in Finland, while the government did not mandate the suspension of business activities to respond to the COVID-19
pandemic, shaft sinking activities continue to be delayed as a result of travel restrictions, despite the addition of local resources. The completion of the project will be delayed beyond the first
half of 2022. Meanwhile, the Company continues to support local tourism businesses by helping them obtain environmental certificates and financing entry tickets for school children to local winter
attractions; 
•in Mexico, the Company continues to donate food pantries to vulnerable people and health and safety supplies to the
surrounding communities of the Pinos Altos and La India mines; 
•government vaccination programs for COVID-19 are underway in all of the regions in which the Company operates. The
Company's local teams have offered their support to the vaccination effort to the local health authorities. 

As
a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company took action to help prevent the spread of the outbreak at its sites and protect its employees, contractors and the communities in which it operates.
The Company is continuing to adjust protocols in response to recurring waves of COVID-19. The enhanced health and safety measures continue to focus on screening employees and contractors before
entering the Company's sites for 

5

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

potential
symptoms of COVID-19, adopting isolation protocols as necessary, contact tracing of individuals that may have been exposed to the virus, cleaning and disinfection services and facilitating
physical distancing. Some of the measures implemented to manage the COVID-19 outbreak are expected to remain in place for the foreseeable future and will increase the production costs at the Company's
operations. These costs relate mostly to increased sanitizing personnel, personal protective equipment ("PPE"), testing of employees and contractors, operating of testing labs, additional employee
transportation, and supplies and health support to surrounding communities. 

Due
to border closures and travel restrictions imposed by federal, provincial, state and local governments, the Company suspended non-essential travel for all employees, including non-essential visits
to the Company's mines and projects. In addition, while the Company's corporate office and regional offices were initially closed, and employees were requested to work from home, these offices were
subsequently re-opened under new hygiene and physical distancing protocols. As employees whose work does not require physical presence in the office continue to work remotely, the Company has utilized
various technology solutions to limit the adverse impact of travel restrictions and remote work arrangements on the Company's ability to operate and adhere to its business goals. Further measures
taken by governments, the Company or others related to COVID-19 may adversely affect workforce productivity and availability, including the ability to transport personnel to and from the mine sites
located in Nunavut. 

The
Company continues to assess the logistics challenges to its supply chain and distribution methods to deliver its dore bar and concentrate products from mines to third-party refineries and
smelters. The Company has observed limited impact to the supply chain to date. The Company has sufficient stock of critical components and has worked closely with its key suppliers to secure future
delivery of materials. Inventory of PPE, tires, cyanide, reagents and other critical parts has been increased at all sites. Similarly, the Company has not experienced significant disruption to its
distribution network and ability to deliver its products to smelting and refining facilities or ability to sell finished products to its customers. However, further measures taken by governments, the
Company or others related to COVID-19 may adversely affect the Company's availability of supplies or its ability to sell or deliver gold dore bars or concentrate. 

There
are significant uncertainties with respect to future developments and impact on the Company related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the duration, severity and scope of the outbreak and any
current or further measures taken by governments, the Company and others in response to the pandemic. While the Company worked closely with the authorities and mining associations to have mining
classified as an essential business by both the Quebec and Mexican governments, further suspension or reduction of operations by the Company may be required in response to additional government
measures or other measures that the Company otherwise deems appropriate. 

 Financial and Operating Results 

 Results of Operations 

Agnico Eagle reported net income of $136.1 million, or $0.56 per share, in the first quarter of 2021 compared with a net loss of
$21.6 million, or $0.09 per share, in the first quarter of 2020. Agnico Eagle reported adjusted net income of $162.9 million, or $0.67 per share, in the first quarter of 2021 compared
with adjusted net income of $56.0 million, or $0.23 per share, in the first quarter of 2020. Adjusted net income is a non-GAAP measure; for a reconciliation of adjusted net income to net income
(loss) as presented in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss) in accordance with IFRS, see Non-GAAP Financial Performance
Measures in this MD&A. 

In
the first quarter of 2021, the operating margin (revenues from mining operations less production costs) increased to $522.0 million compared with $315.8 million in the first quarter
of 2020, primarily due to a 39.1% 

6

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

increase
in revenues from mining operations as a result of a 12.7% higher average realized price in gold between periods and a 24.9% increase in the sales volume of gold. Operating margin is a
non-GAAP measure; for a reconciliation of operating margin to net income (loss) as presented in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss) in accordance with IFRS, see Non-GAAP Financial Performance
Measures in this MD&A. 

Gold
production increased to 516,804 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with 411,366 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to the return of operations to normal
levels at the Company's Quebec and
Nunavut mines, which were affected by COVID-19 precautionary measures in the prior period and the contribution of gold production from the Hope Bay mine which was acquired during the first
quarter of 2021. Partially offsetting the overall increase in gold production compared to the first quarter of 2020 was a decrease in gold production from the Creston Mascota mine as the open pit
mining operations ceased in the third quarter of 2020. Cash provided by operating activities amounted to $356.4 million in the first quarter of 2021 compared with $163.4 million in the
first quarter of 2020. Weighted average total cash costs per ounce of gold produced amounted to $734 on a by-product basis and $797 on a co-product basis in the first quarter of 2021 compared with
$836 on a by-product basis and $889 on a co-product basis in the first quarter of 2020. Total cash costs per ounce is non-GAAP measure; for a reconciliation of total cash costs per ounce of gold
produced on both a by-product basis (deducting by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting by-product metal revenues) to production costs as presented in
the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss) in accordance with IFRS, see Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures in this MD&A. 

The
table below sets out variances in the key drivers of net income for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared with the net loss for the three months ended
March 31, 2020: 
 

(millions of United States dollars)

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021
vs.
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 Increase in gold revenues
 
$
255.6
 

 Increase in silver revenues
 
 
1.6
 

 Increase in net copper revenues
 
 
2.8
 

 Increase in net zinc revenues
 
 
2.5
 

 Increase in production costs due to effects of foreign currencies
 
 
(16.1
)

 Increase in production costs
 
 
(40.2
)

 Decrease in exploration and corporate development expenses
 
 
0.9
 

 Increase in amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
(27.6
)

 Increase in general and administrative expenses
 
 
(14.4
)

 Decrease in finance costs
 
 
5.6
 

 Change in loss on derivative financial instruments
 
 
21.5
 

 Change in non-cash foreign currency translation
 
 
6.9
 

 Increase in other (income) expenses
 
 
7.1
 

 Increase in income and mining taxes
 
 
(48.5
)

 
 
 
 

 Total net income (loss) variance
 
$
157.7
 

 
 
 
 

 
 7

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 vs. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 

Revenues from mining operations increased to $934.4 million in the first quarter of 2021, compared with $671.9 million in the first
quarter of 2020, primarily due to a 24.9% increase in the sales volume of gold (which excludes 6,638 ounces of payable production of gold sold associated with the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit at
the Meliadine mine) and a 12.7% increase in the average realized price of gold. 

Production
costs were $412.4 million in the first quarter of 2021, a 15.8% increase compared with $356.1 million in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to the addition of the Hope
Bay mine through the acquisition of TMAC and higher production costs at the LaRonde mine which had lower mining and milling costs in the prior period as a result of the delay in accessing higher grade
ore from the West mine area, and the strengthening of the Canadian dollar and Euro relative to the US dollar between periods. Partially offsetting the total increase in production costs was a decrease
in production costs at the Creston Mascota mine due to ceasing of mining operations at the open pit in the third quarter of 2020. 

Weighted
average total cash costs per ounce of gold produced decreased to $734 on a by-product basis and $797 on a co-product basis in the first quarter of 2021, compared with $836 on a by-product
basis and $889 on a co-product basis in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to increased gold production at the Quebec and Nunavut mines, partially offset by the strengthening of the Canadian and
Euro relative to the US dollar and the decrease in gold production at the Creston Mascota mine due to ceasing of mining operations at the open pit in the third quarter of 2020. 

Exploration
and corporate development expenses decreased to $28.7 million in the first quarter of 2021, compared with $29.6 million in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to lower
corporate development expenses, partially offset by increased exploration activities at the Upper Beaver project. 

Amortization
of property, plant and mine development increased by $27.6 million to $181.1 million between the first quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021, primarily due to an
increase in the tonnage of ore processed at the Company's mines between periods and the contribution of amortization from the Hope Bay mine which was acquired during the first quarter of 2021. 

General
and administrative expenses increased to $44.9 million during the first quarter of 2021, compared with $30.5 million during the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to increased
share-based compensation and benefits expenses and donations between periods. 

Finance
costs decreased to $22.2 million during the first quarter of 2021, compared with $27.8 million during the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to decreased interest expense on
the Company's guaranteed senior unsecured notes as $360.0 million of the 2010 Series B Notes was repaid in April 2020, partially offset by
increased interest expense resulting from the $200.0 million private placement of guaranteed senior unsecured notes which were issued in April 2020. 

Loss
on derivative financial instruments decreased to $21.1 million during the first quarter of 2021, compared with $42.6 million during the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to an
increase in realized and unrealized gains on currency and commodity derivatives, partially offset by an increase in unrealized losses on warrants. Realized gains on currency and commodity derivatives
were $9.1 million during the first quarter of 2021, compared to a realized loss of $2.9 million during the first quarter of 2020. As a result of the increase of diesel spot prices and
the strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar at the end of March 2021, the Company recognized an unrealized gain on currency and commodity derivatives of
$0.7 million during the first quarter of 2021, compared to an unrealized loss of $38.4 million during the first quarter of 2020. In addition, the decrease in the market value of
outstanding warrants held by the Company resulted in an unrealized loss on warrants of $31.8 million in the first quarter of 2021, compared to an unrealized loss of $1.9 million in the
first quarter of 2020. The Company holds warrants to acquire equity securities of certain issuers in the mining industry. 

8

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

During
the first quarter of 2021, there was a non-cash foreign currency translation gain of $3.1 million attributable to the weakening of the Euro relative to the US dollar as at
March 31, 2021, compared to December 31, 2020. The net foreign currency translation gain in the first quarter of 2021 was primarily due to the translation impact of the Company's net
monetary liabilities denominated in the Euro. A non-cash foreign currency translation loss of $3.8 million was recorded during the first quarter of 2020. 

In
the first quarter of 2021, the Company recorded income and mining taxes expense of $93.4 million on income before income and mining taxes of $229.6 million, resulting in an effective
tax rate of 40.7%. In the first quarter of 2020, the Company recorded income and mining taxes expense of $44.9 million on income before income and mining taxes of $23.3 million,
resulting in an effective tax rate of 192.7%. The decrease in the effective tax rate between the first quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021 was primarily due to foreign exchange
rate movements. 

There
are a number of factors that can significantly impact the Company's effective tax rate including varying rates in different jurisdictions, the non-recognition of certain tax assets, mining
allowances, foreign currency exchange rate movements, changes in tax laws, the impact of specific transactions and assessments and the relative distribution of income in the Company's operating
jurisdictions. As a result of these factors, the Company's effective tax rate is expected to fluctuate significantly in future periods. 

 LaRonde mine 

At the LaRonde mine, gold production increased by 36.5% to 75,389 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with 55,223 ounces in
the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to increased mill throughput and higher gold grades. In the first quarter of 2020, the LaRonde mine experienced delays in accessing higher grade ore from the
West mine area as additional ground support was being completed and was affected by the temporary suspension of mining activities to comply with the Quebec Order to close all non-essential businesses
made in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Production costs at the LaRonde mine were $51.3 million in the first quarter of 2021, an increase of 148.8% compared with production costs of
$20.6 million in the first quarter of 2020 driven primarily by the factors noted above, the timing of inventory sales and the strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar
between periods. 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine 

At the LaRonde Zone 5 mine, gold production increased by 22.3% to 17,689 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with
14,464 ounces in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to increased mill throughput and higher gold grades. Production costs at the LaRonde Zone 5 mine were $12.7 million in
the first quarter of 2021, an increase of 7.6% compared with production costs of $11.8 million in the first quarter of 2020, driven primarily by higher underground development costs and the
strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar between periods, partially offset by the timing of inventory sales. 

 Goldex mine 

At the Goldex mine, gold production increased by 2.3% to 34,650 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with 33,883 ounces in the
first quarter of 2020, primarily due to increased mill throughput. In the first quarter of 2020, the Quebec Order required the Company to temporarily suspend operations in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic. Production costs at the Goldex mine were $22.5 million in the first quarter of 2021, an increase of 12.8% compared with production costs of $20.0 million in the
first quarter of 2020, driven primarily by the factor noted above, higher underground production and maintenance costs and the strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar between
periods. 

9

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 

 Meadowbank Complex 

At the Meadowbank Complex, gold production increased by 62.1% to 79,965 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with 49,341 ounces
in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to increased mill throughput and higher gold grades. On March 19, 2020, the Company sent home its Nunavut-based workforce at the Meadowbank Complex
and significantly reduced its activities as part of an effort to limit the risk of the spread of COVID-19 in Nunavut. Production costs at the Meadowbank Complex were $87.3 million in the first
quarter of 2021, a decrease of 2.3% compared with production costs of $89.4 million in the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to the timing of inventory sales, partially offset by the
strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar between periods. 

 Meliadine mine 

At the Meliadine mine, gold production increased by 37.4% to 96,126 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 (which includes 8,123 ounces
produced prior to the achievement of commercial production at the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit), compared with 69,975 ounces of gold production in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to
increased mill throughput and higher gold grades. On March 19, 2020, the Company sent home its Nunavut-based workforce at the Meliadine mine and significantly reduced its activities as part of
an effort to limit the risk of the spread of COVID-19 in Nunavut. Production costs at the Meliadine mine were $59.8 million in the first quarter of 2021, an increase of 10.2% compared
with production costs of $54.3 million in the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to the timing of inventory sales and the strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar between
periods, partially offset by lower underground development costs. 

 Hope Bay mine 

The Company completed the acquisition of TMAC on February 2, 2021. For the period from February 2, 2021 to March 31, 2021, gold
production at the Hope Bay mine was 12,259 ounces and production costs at the Hope Bay mine were $24.1 million. 

 Canadian Malartic mine 

At the 50% owned Canadian Malartic mine, attributable gold production increased by 38.3% to 89,550 ounces in the first quarter of 2021,
compared with 64,763 ounces in the first quarter of 2020 (which includes 2,974 ounces produced prior to the achievement of commercial production at
the Barnat deposit), primarily due to the impact of the Quebec Order in the prior period. Attributable production costs at the Canadian Malartic mine were $55.5 million in the first quarter of
2021, an increase of 14.0% compared with production costs of $48.7 million in the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to the suspension of operations required by the Quebec Order in the first
quarter of 2020. 

 Kittila mine 

At the Kittila mine, gold production increased by 23.2% to 60,716 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with 49,297 ounces in
the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to increased mill throughput and higher gold grades. Production costs at the Kittila mine were $48.7 million in the first quarter of 2021, an increase
of 11.4% compared with production costs of $43.7 million in the first quarter of 2020 driven primarily by higher underground mining costs and the strengthening of the Euro relative to the US
dollar between periods, partially offset by the timing of inventory sales. 

 Pinos Altos mine 

At the Pinos Altos mine, gold production decreased by 12.4% to 29,175 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with 33,310 ounces
in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to the processing of lower gold grades. Production costs at the Pinos Altos mine were $32.0 million in the first quarter of 2021, a decrease of 10.8% 

10

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

compared
with production costs of $35.9 million in the first quarter of 2020 driven primarily by the timing of inventory sales, partially offset by higher milling costs. 

 Creston Mascota mine 

At the Creston Mascota mine, gold production decreased by 76.6% to 4,252 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with
18,184 ounces in the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to ceasing of mining operations at the open pit in the third quarter of 2020. Gold production in the first quarter of 2021 came only
from residual leaching. Production costs at the Creston Mascota mine were
$2.4 million in the first quarter of 2021, a decrease of 79.6% compared with production costs of $11.8 million in the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to the cessation of mining
activities. 

 La India mine 

At the La India mine, gold production decreased by 25.7% to 17,033 ounces in the first quarter of 2021 compared with 22,926 ounces in
the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to the processing of lower gold grades. Production costs at the La India mine were $16.1 million in the first quarter of 2021, a decrease of 19.5%
compared with production costs of $20.1 million in the first quarter of 2020, driven primarily by the timing of inventory sales, partially offset by higher heap leach costs. 

 Balance Sheet Review 

Total assets of $9,552.8 million at March 31, 2021 decreased by $61.9 million from $9,614.8 million at
December 31, 2020 primarily due to a $276.1 million decrease in cash and cash equivalents. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to an aggregate of
$340.9 million in payments related to the acquisition of TMAC (including funds advanced to TMAC to partially fund the repayment of its long-term debt and payment for the repurchase of the Hope
Bay 1.5% net smelter return royalty), $181.9 million in capital expenditures, $73.0 million in dividends paid, and $34.6 million for the repurchase of common shares for
stock-based compensation plans. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents was partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $356.4 million. In addition, investments decreased by
$92.9 million from $375.1 million at December 31, 2020 to $282.2 million at March 31, 2021 primarily as a result of $93.1 million in unrealized fair value
losses related to the Company's holdings of equity securities and share purchase warrants. Partially offsetting the overall decrease in assets was an increase in property, plant and mine development
of $193.4 million from $7,325.4 million at December 31, 2020 to $7,518.8 million at March 31, 2021, primarily as a result of the acquisition of TMAC during the first
quarter of 2021. In addition, inventories increased by $39.1 million to $669.6 million at March 31, 2021 primarily due to the acquisition of TMAC, and other assets increased by
$38.1 million to $297.4 million at March 31, 2021 primarily as a result of increased long-term stockpile inventories at the Meadowbank Complex and Canadian Malartic mine. 

Total
liabilities of $3,863.5 million at March 31, 2021 decreased by $68.0 million from $3,931.5 million at December 31, 2020 primarily due to a $66.2 million
decrease in deferred income and mining tax liabilities as a result of the origination and reversal of net taxable temporary differences, including the recognition of a deferred income tax asset on the
acquisition of TMAC. Income taxes payable decreased by $70.7 million to $32.0 million at March 31, 2021 from $102.7 million at December 31, 2020 as a result of
payments made to tax authorities in excess of the current tax expense. Partially offsetting the overall decrease in liabilities was an increase in the reclamation provision by $54.4 million
between December 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021 primarily due to the acquisition of TMAC and the re-measurement of these provisions by applying updated cash flow estimates and assumptions
at the LaRonde mine, primarily related to an updated mine closure plan completed during the first quarter of 2021. 

While
the Company occasionally enters into contracts to limit the risk associated with decreased by-product metal prices, increased foreign currency costs (including capital expenditures) and input
costs, the contracts act 

11

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

as
economic hedges of underlying exposures and are not held for speculative purposes. Agnico Eagle does not use complex derivative contracts to hedge exposures. During the first quarter of 2021, the
Company increased its currency hedge positions to support its key input costs used in budgeting and mine planning assumptions. As at March 31, 2021, the Company had outstanding currency
derivative contracts related to $1,272.3 million of 2021 and 2022 expenditures (December 31, 2020 — $1,188.0 million) and diesel fuel
derivative contracts related to 20.0 million gallons of heating oil (December 31, 2020 — 24.0 million). 

 Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As at March 31, 2021, the Company's cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and current restricted cash totaled
$155.0 million compared with $406.5 million as at December 31, 2020. The Company's policy is to invest excess cash in highly liquid investments of high credit quality to reduce
risks associated with these investments. Such investments with remaining maturities of greater than three months and less than one year at the time of purchase are classified as short-term
investments. Decisions regarding the length of maturities are based on cash flow requirements, rates of return and various other factors. 

Working
capital (current assets less current liabilities) decreased to $591.4 million as at March 31, 2021 compared with $731.5 million as at December 31, 2020 primarily
due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $276.1 million, which was partially offset by an increase in inventories of $39.1 million and a decrease in income taxes payable of
$70.7 million. 

In
the first quarter of 2021, the Company drew down $240.0 million from the Credit Facility primarily to facilitate the acquisition of TMAC. The outstanding balance was fully repaid in
March 2021. As at March 31, 2021, $1,199.1 million was available for future drawdown under the Credit Facility. Credit Facility availability is reduced by outstanding letters of
credit, which were $0.9 million as of March 31, 2021. 

Subject
to various risks and uncertainties, the Company believes it will generate sufficient cash flow from operations and has adequate cash and debt facilities available to finance its current
operations, contractual obligations and planned capital expenditure and exploration programs. As of March 31, 2021, the Company had no debt maturities until 2022, except for leases in the
normal course of business. While the Company believes its capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy all its mandatory and discretionary commitments, the
Company may choose to decrease certain of its discretionary expenditure commitments, which include certain capital expenditures and exploration and corporate development expenses, should unexpected
financial circumstances arise in the future. See Risk Profile in this MD&A. 

 Operating Activities 

Cash provided by operating activities increased to $356.4 million in the first quarter of 2021 compared with $163.4 million in the
first quarter of 2020 primarily due to higher average realized gold prices and a 24.9% increase in payable gold ounces sold between periods, which was partially offset by an increase in production
costs and less favourable working capital changes between periods. 

 Investing Activities 

Cash used in investing activities increased to $527.9 million in the first quarter of 2021, compared with $178.2 million in the first
quarter of 2020, primarily due to $340.9 million of payments related to the acquisition of TMAC, including funds advanced to TMAC to partially fund the repayment of its long-term debt and
payment for the repurchase of the Hope Bay 1.5% net smelter return royalty. 

In
the first quarter of 2021, the Company purchased $5.5 million in equity securities and other investments compared with $16.1 million in the first quarter of 2020. In addition, the
Company received net proceeds of $1.5 million from the sale of equity securities and other investments in the first quarter of 2021, compared with $8.8 million in the first quarter of
2020. The Company's equity securities and other investments consist primarily of investments in common shares and share purchase warrants of entities in the mining industry. 

12

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 Financing Activities 

Cash used in financing activities was $100.1 million in the first quarter of 2021 compared with cash provided by financing activities of
$954.8 million in the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to a $1,000.0 million decrease in net proceeds drawn from the Credit Facility, a $35.5 million increase in dividends
paid, and a $19.7 million decrease in proceeds from stock option plan exercises between periods.
The Company drew down $1,000.0 million in the first quarter of 2020 as a cautionary measure given the uncertainty with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic at that time. 

The
Company issued common shares for net proceeds of $12.9 million in the first quarter of 2021, compared to $32.0 million in the first quarter of 2020, attributable to employee stock
option plan exercises, issuances under the incentive share purchase plan and the dividend reinvestment plan. 

On
February 11, 2021, Agnico Eagle declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per common share paid on March 22, 2021 to holders of record of the common shares of the Company as of
March 1, 2021. Agnico Eagle has declared a cash dividend every year since 1983. In the first quarter of 2021, the Company paid dividends of $73.0 million, an increase of
$35.5 million compared to $37.5 million paid in the first quarter of 2020. Although the Company expects to continue paying dividends, future dividends will be at the discretion of the
Board and will be subject to factors such as income, financial condition and capital requirements. 

On
December 14, 2018, the Company amended its $1,200.0 million Credit Facility to extend the maturity date from June 22, 2022 to June 22, 2023. In the first quarter of
2021, the Company drew down and repaid $240.0 million on its Credit Facility. 

On
June 29, 2016, the Company entered into a standby letter of credit facility with a financial institution providing for a C$100.0 million uncommitted letter of credit facility
(the "Third LC Facility"). Letters of credit issued under the Third LC Facility may be used to support the reclamation obligations or non-financial or performance obligations of the Company or
its subsidiaries. The obligations of the Company under the Third LC Facility are guaranteed by certain of its subsidiaries. As at March 31, 2021, the aggregate undrawn face amount of letters of
credit under the Third LC Facility was $66.9 million. 

On
September 23, 2015, the Company entered into another standby letter of credit facility with a financial institution providing for a C$150.0 million uncommitted letter of credit
facility (as amended, the "Second LC Facility"). Effective April 23, 2020, the amount available under the Second LC Facility was increased to C$200.0 million. The Second LC
Facility may be used by the Company to support the reclamation obligations of the Company, its subsidiaries or any entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest or the performance
obligations (other than with respect to indebtedness for borrowed money) of the Company, its subsidiaries or any entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest that are not directly
related to reclamation obligations. Payment and performance of the Company's obligations under the Second LC Facility are supported by an account performance security guarantee issued by Export
Development Canada in favour of the lender. As at March 31, 2021, the aggregate undrawn face amount of letters of credit under the Second LC Facility was $103.5 million. 

On
July 31, 2015, the Company amended its credit agreement with another financial institution relating to its uncommitted letter of credit facility (as amended, the "First LC Facility").
Effective September 27, 2016, the amount available under the First LC Facility was increased to C$350.0 million. The obligations of the Company under the First LC Facility are guaranteed
by certain of its subsidiaries. The First LC Facility may be used to support the reclamation obligations or non-financial or performance obligations of the Company or its subsidiaries. As at
March 31, 2021, the aggregate undrawn face amount of letters of credit under the First LC Facility was $226.3 million. 

The
Company was in compliance with all covenants contained in the Credit Facility, First LC Facility, Second LC Facility, Third LC Facility and the $1,575.0 million guaranteed senior unsecured
notes as at March 31, 2021. 

13

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 Risk Profile 

The Company is subject to significant risks, including but not limited to fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and other risks
due to the inherent nature of the business of exploration, development and mining of properties with precious metals. Changes in economic conditions and volatile financial markets may have a
significant impact on Agnico Eagle's cost and availability of financing and overall liquidity. The volatility in gold, silver, zinc and copper prices directly affects Agnico Eagle's revenues, earnings
and cash flow. Volatile energy, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates impact production costs. The Company is subject to risks related to pandemics and other outbreaks of
communicable diseases such as COVID-19, as well as the economic impacts that result therefrom. For a more comprehensive discussion of these and other risks, see "Risk Factors" in the AIF filed on the
CSA's SEDAR website and with the SEC as part of the Form 40-F. For the discussion of risks incremental to those disclosed in the AIF, see Forward-Looking
Statements and Impact of COVID-19 on the Company's Business and Operations in this MD&A. 

 Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Controls over Financial Reporting 

The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ("ICFR") and disclosure
controls and procedures ("DC&P"). 

ICFR
is a framework designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Management has used the Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) in order to assess the effectiveness of the Company's ICFR. 

DC&P
form a broader framework designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in its annual and interim filings and other reports filed under
securities legislation
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time frame specified in securities legislation and includes controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the Company in its annual and interim filings and other reports submitted under securities legislation is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. 

Together,
the ICFR and DC&P frameworks provide internal control over financial reporting and disclosure. The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide
reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be disclosed in the Company's annual and interim filings and other reports filed under securities legislation, is accumulated and
communicated in a timely fashion. Due to their inherent limitations, the Company acknowledges that, no matter how well designed, ICFR and DC&P can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the
desired control objectives and as such may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Further, the effectiveness of ICFR is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may change. 

In
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company asked all of its corporate office staff and many site administrative staff at regional, mine site and exploration offices to work from home.
These offices were subsequently re-opened under new hygiene and physical distancing protocols; however, employees whose work does not require physical presence in the office continue to work remotely.
This change requires certain processes and controls that were previously done or documented manually to be completed and retained in electronic form. The Company continues to monitor whether remote
work arrangements have adversely affected the Company's ability to maintain internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Despite the changes required by the
current environment, there have been no significant changes in our internal controls during the three months ended March 31, 2021 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. 

14

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 Limitation on scope of design 

The Company acquired TMAC during the three months ended March 31, 2021. The financial information for this acquisition is included in this
MD&A and in Note 5 to the condensed interim consolidated financial statements. The CSA's National Instrument 52-109 and the SEC staff provide an exemption whereby companies undergoing
acquisitions can exclude the acquired business in the year of acquisition from the scope of testing and assessment of design and operational effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. Due to
the complexity associated with assessing internal controls during integration efforts, the Company plans to utilize the scope exemption as it relates to this acquisition in its management report on
internal controls over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2021. 

The
tables below present summary financial information for the Hope Bay mine included in the Company's condensed interim consolidated financial statements: 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 

 Revenues from mining operations
 
$35,505

 Income before income and mining taxes
 
$5,072

 

 

 
 
As at
March 31, 2021 

 Total current assets
 
$103,908

 Total non-current assets
 
$208,533

 Total current liabilities
 
$15,893

 Total non-current liabilities(i)
 
$45,742

 

Note: 

(i)Excluded
deferred income tax asset presented with deferred income and mining tax liabilities in the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets. 
 
 15

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures 

This MD&A presents certain financial performance measures, including adjusted net income, total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (on both
a by-product and co-product basis), minesite costs per tonne, all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced (on both a by-product and co-product basis) and operating margin, that are not
recognized measures under IFRS. This data may not be comparable to data presented by other gold producers. Non-GAAP financial performance measures should be considered together with other data
prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

 Adjusted Net Income 

Adjusted net income is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data presented by other gold producers. This
measure is calculated by adjusting net income (loss) as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss) for non-recurring, unusual and other items. The Company believes that
this generally accepted industry measure allows the evaluation of the results of continuing operations and is useful in making comparisons between periods. Adjusted net income is intended to provide
investors with information about the Company's continuing income generating capabilities. Management uses this measure to monitor and plan for the operating performance of the Company in conjunction
with other data prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

(thousands of United States dollars)

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 Net income (loss) for the period
 
$
136,148
 
$
(21,565
)

 Foreign currency translation (gain) loss
 
 
(3,078
)
 
3,846
 

 Realized and unrealized loss on derivative financial instruments
 
 
21,066
 
 
42,602
 

 Gain on sale of non-strategic exploration properties
 
 
(10,000
)
 
—
 

 Multi-year health care donation
 
 
7,952
 
 
—
 

 Other(i)
 
 
4,079
 
 
6,917
 

 Income and mining taxes adjustments(ii)
 
 
6,756
 
 
24,225
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Adjusted net income for the period(iii)
 
$
162,923
 
$
56,025
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) per share — basic and diluted
 
$
0.56
 
$
(0.09
)

 Adjusted net income per share — basic and diluted
 
$
0.67
 
$
0.23
 

 

Notes: 

(i)The
Company includes certain adjustments in "Other" to the extent that management believes that these items are not reflective of the underlying performance
of the Company's core operating business. Examples of items historically included in "Other" include changes in estimates of asset retirement obligations at closed sites and gains and losses on the
disposal of assets. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, these costs also included temporary suspension costs of $3.9 million and interest on the Credit Facility of
$1.4 million, which was drawn down as a cautionary measure in the uncertain economic environment with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic.
(ii)Income
and mining taxes adjustments reflect items such as foreign currency translation recorded to the income and mining taxes expense, income and mining
taxes impact on normalized items, recognition of previously unrecognized capital losses, the result of income and mining taxes audits, impact of tax law changes and reflective adjustments to prior
period operating results.
(iii)The
Company did not adjust for the following items in its calculation of adjusted net income:

—Stock-based
compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 of $8.8 million (three months ended March 31,
2020 — $6.6 million).
—Costs
incurred in connection with the Company's response to the COVID-19 pandemic for the three months ended March 31, 2021 of
$4.1 million. These costs represent primarily payroll costs of Nunavut-based employees who could not return to work to prevent or curtail community transmission of COVID-19. For the three
months ended March 31, 2020, no adjustment was made for the payrolls costs and other incidental costs of $1.2 million associated with people who were working working remotely during the
period of suspended operations. 

 
 16

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 
 
 

—Direct
and incremental costs incurred in connection with the company's response to the COVID-19 pandemic for the three months ended
March 31, 2021 of $1.4 million which are primarily related to cleaning and disinfection services, screening and on-site testing for COVID-19 and community support. 

 
 Total Cash Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced and Minesite Costs per Tonne 

The Company believes that total cash costs per ounce of gold produced and minesite costs per tonne are realistic indicators of operating performance
and facilitate period over period comparisons. However, both of these non-GAAP generally accepted industry measures should be considered together with other data prepared in accordance with IFRS.
These measures, taken by themselves, are not necessarily indicative of operating costs or cash flow measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

The
total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is reported on both a by-product basis (deducting by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting by-product
metal revenues). The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis is calculated by adjusting production costs as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated statements of
income (loss) for by-product revenues, inventory production costs, smelting, refining and marketing charges and other adjustments, and then dividing by the number of ounces of gold produced. The total
cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis is calculated in the same manner as the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis, except that no adjustment is made
for by-product metal revenues. Accordingly, the calculation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a co-product basis does not reflect a reduction in production costs or smelting, refining
and marketing charges associated with the production and sale of by-product metals. The total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is intended to provide information about the cash generating
capabilities of the Company's mining operations. Management also uses these measures to monitor the performance of the Company's mining operations. As market prices for gold are quoted on a per ounce
basis, using the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis measure allows management to assess a mine's cash generating capabilities at various gold prices. Management is aware
that these per ounce measures of performance can be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and, in the case of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis, by-product metal
prices. Management compensates for these inherent limitations by using these measures in conjunction with minesite costs per tonne (discussed below) as well as other data prepared in accordance with
IFRS. Management also performs sensitivity analysis in order to quantify the effects of fluctuating metal prices and exchange rates. 

Agnico
Eagle's primary business is gold production and the focus of its current operations and future development is on maximizing returns from gold production, with other metal production being
incidental to the gold production process. Accordingly, all metals other than gold are considered by-products. 

Total
cash costs per ounce of gold produced is reported on a by-product basis because (i) the majority of the Company's revenues are gold revenues, (ii) the Company mines ore, which
contains gold, silver, zinc, copper and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all costs to revenues from the gold, silver, zinc, copper and other metals the Company
produces and (iv) it is a method used by management and the Board to monitor operations. 

Minesite
costs per tonne are calculated by adjusting production costs as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss) for inventory production costs and other
adjustments, and then dividing by tonnes of ore processed. As the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced can be affected by fluctuations in by-product metal prices and foreign exchange rates,
management believes that minesite costs per tonne provide additional information regarding the performance of mining operations, eliminating the impact of varying production levels. Management also
uses this measure to determine the economic viability of mining blocks. As each mining block is evaluated based on the net realizable value of each tonne mined, in order to be economically viable the
estimated revenue on a per tonne basis must be in excess of the minesite costs per tonne. Management is aware that this per tonne measure of performance can be impacted by fluctuations in production
levels and compensates for this inherent limitation by using this measure in conjunction with production costs prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

17

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 

The following tables set out a reconciliation of total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (on both a by-product basis and co-product basis) and minesite costs per
tonne to production costs, exclusive of amortization, as presented in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss) in accordance with IFRS. 

 Total Production Costs by Mine 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
$
51,342
 
$
20,636
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
12,685
 
 
11,792
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde Complex
 
 
64,027
 
 
32,428
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
22,513
 
 
19,958
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
87,339
 
 
89,366
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
59,764
 
 
54,255
 

 Hope Bay mine
 
 
24,075
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(i)
 
 
55,468
 
 
48,656
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
48,660
 
 
43,671
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
31,998
 
 
35,881
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
2,417
 
 
11,837
 

 La India mine
 
 
16,139
 
 
20,050
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Production costs per the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss)
 
$
412,400
 
$
356,102
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 18

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 Reconciliation of Production Costs to Total Cash Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) by Mine and Reconciliation of Production Costs to Minesite
Costs per Tonne(iii) by Mine 

(thousands of United States dollars, except as noted) 
 

LaRonde mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
75,389
 
 
 
 
 
55,223
 

 Production costs
 
$

51,342
 
$

681
 
$

20,636
 
$

374
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
3,491
 
 
46
 
 
23,856
 
 
432
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
54,833
 
$
727
 
$
44,492
 
$
806
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(17,899
)
 
(237
)
 
(6,828
)
 
(124
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
36,934
 
$
490
 
$
37,664
 
$
682
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

LaRonde mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
487
 
 
 
 
 
412
 

 Production costs
 
$

51,342
 
$

105
 
$

20,636
 
$

50
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
66,403
 
C$
136
 
C$
25,831
 
C$
63
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
(1,989
)
 
(4
)
 
28,591
 
 
69
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
64,414
 
C$
132
 
C$
54,422
 
C$
132
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

LaRonde Zone 5 mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
17,689
 
 
 
 
 
14,464
 

 Production costs
 
$

12,685
 
$

717
 
$

11,792
 
$

815
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
864
 
 
49
 
 
462
 
 
32
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
13,549
 
$
766
 
$
12,254
 
$
847
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(89
)
 
(5
)
 
(33
)
 
(2
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
13,460
 
$
761
 
$
12,221
 
$
845
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

LaRonde Zone 5 mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
277
 
 
 
 
 
245
 

 Production costs
 
$

12,685
 
$

46
 
$

11,792
 
$

48
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
16,154
 
C$
58
 
C$
15,803
 
C$
65
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
1,643
 
 
6
 
 
660
 
 
2
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
17,797
 
C$
64
 
C$
16,463
 
C$
67
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 19

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 
 

LaRonde Complex
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
93,078
 
 
 
 
 
69,687
 

 Production costs
 
$

64,027
 
$

688
 
$

32,428
 
$

465
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
4,355
 
 
47
 
 
24,318
 
 
349
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
68,382
 
$
735
 
$
56,746
 
$
814
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(17,988
)
 
(194
)
 
(6,861
)
 
(98
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
50,394
 
$
541
 
$
49,885
 
$
716
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

LaRonde Complex
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
764
 
 
 
 
 
657
 

 Production costs
 
$

64,027
 
$

84
 
$

32,428
 
$

49
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
82,557
 
C$
108
 
C$
41,634
 
C$
63
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
(346
)
 
—
 
 
29,251
 
 
45
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
82,211
 
C$
108
 
C$
70,885
 
C$
108
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Goldex mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
34,650
 
 
 
 
 
33,883
 

 Production costs
 
$

22,513
 
$

650
 
$

19,958
 
$

589
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(937
)
 
(27
)
 
(1,063
)
 
(31
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
21,576
 
$
623
 
$
18,895
 
$
558
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(6
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
21,570
 
$
623
 
$
18,895
 
$
558
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Goldex mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
727
 
 
 
 
 
657
 

 Production costs
 
$

22,513
 
$

31
 
$

19,958
 
$

30
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
28,558
 
C$
39
 
C$
26,239
 
C$
40
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
(27
)
 
—
 
 
(932
)
 
(1
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
28,531
 
C$
39
 
C$
25,307
 
C$
39
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 20

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31,
2021 
 

Meadowbank Complex
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
79,965
 
 
 
 
 
49,341
 

 Production costs
 
$

87,339
 
$

1,092
 
$

89,366
 
$

1,811
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
2,938
 
 
37
 
 
(7,944
)
 
(161
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
90,277
 
$
1,129
 
$
81,422
 
$
1,650
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(492
)
 
(6
)
 
(301
)
 
(6
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
89,785
 
$
1,123
 
$
81,121
 
$
1,644
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Meadowbank Complex
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
924
 
 
 
 
 
579
 

 Production costs
 
$

87,339
 
$

95
 
$

89,366
 
$

154
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
112,766
 
C$
122
 
C$
119,505
 
C$
206
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
7,102
 
 
8
 
 
(11,925
)
 
(20
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
119,868
 
C$
130
 
C$
107,580
 
C$
186
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Meliadine mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii)(vi) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
88,003
 
 
 
 
 
69,975
 

 Production costs
 
$

59,764
 
$

679
 
$

54,255
 
$

775
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(4,291
)
 
(49
)
 
1,787
 
 
26
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
55,473
 
$
630
 
$
56,042
 
$
801
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(220
)
 
(2
)
 
(112
)
 
(2
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
55,253
 
$
628
 
$
55,930
 
$
799
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Meliadine mine
Per Tonne(iii)(vii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
338
 
 
 
 
 
307
 

 Production costs
 
$

59,764
 
$

177
 
$

54,255
 
$

177
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
76,409
 
C$
226
 
C$
71,927
 
C$
234
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
(2,508
)
 
(7
)
 
2,118
 
 
7
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
73,901
 
C$
219
 
C$
74,045
 
C$
241
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 21

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 
 

Hope Bay mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
12,259
 
 
 
 
 
—
 

 Production costs
 
$

24,075
 
$

1,964
 
$

—
 
$

—
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(12,691
)
 
(1,035
)
 
—
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
11,384
 
$
929
 
$
—
 
$
—
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
11,384
 
$
929
 
$
—
 
$
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Hope Bay mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
 
—
 

 Production costs
 
$

24,075
 
$

616
 
$

—
 
$

—
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
30,477
 
C$
780
 
C$
—
 
C$
—
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
(16,306
)
 
(417
)
 
—
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
14,171
 
C$
363
 
C$
—
 
C$
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Canadian Malartic mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(i)(ii)(viii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
89,550
 
 
 
 
 
61,789
 

 Production costs
 
$

55,468
 
$

619
 
$

48,656
 
$

787
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
1,816
 
 
21
 
 
(1,507
)
 
(24
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
57,284
 
$
640
 
$
47,149
 
$
763
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(2,030
)
 
(23
)
 
(1,773
)
 
(29
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
55,254
 
$
617
 
$
45,376
 
$
734
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Canadian Malartic mine
Per Tonne(i)(iii)(ix) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
2,631
 
 
 
 
 
2,321
 

 Production costs
 
$

55,468
 
$

21
 
$

48,656
 
$

21
 

 Production costs (C$)
 
C$
71,210
 
C$
27
 
C$
65,472
 
C$
28
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (C$)(v)
 
 
2,211
 
 
1
 
 
(2,526
)
 
(1
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (C$)
 
C$
73,421
 
C$
28
 
C$
62,946
 
C$
27
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 22

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 

Kittila mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
60,716
 
 
 
 
 
49,297
 

 Production costs
 
$

48,660
 
$

801
 
$

43,671
 
$

886
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(129
)
 
(2
)
 
(3,676
)
 
(75
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
48,531
 
$
799
 
$
39,995
 
$
811
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(54
)
 
(1
)
 
(54
)
 
(1
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
48,477
 
$
798
 
$
39,941
 
$
810
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Kittila mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
494
 
 
 
 
 
420
 

 Production costs
 
$

48,660
 
$

99
 
$

43,671
 
$

104
 

 Production costs (€)
 
€
41,068
 
€
83
 
€
39,665
 
€
94
 

 Inventory and other adjustments (€)(v)
 
 
(337
)
 
(1
)
 
(3,358
)
 
(7
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs (€)
 
€
40,731
 
€
82
 
€
36,307
 
€
87
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Pinos Altos mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
29,175
 
 
 
 
 
33,310
 

 Production costs
 
$

31,998
 
$

1,097
 
$

35,881
 
$

1,077
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
1,987
 
 
68
 
 
(2,906
)
 
(87
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
33,985
 
$
1,165
 
$
32,975
 
$
990
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(9,538
)
 
(327
)
 
(8,079
)
 
(243
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
24,447
 
$
838
 
$
24,896
 
$
747
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Pinos Altos mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore processed (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
493
 
 
 
 
 
480
 

 Production costs
 
$

31,998
 
$

65
 
$

35,881
 
$

75
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(v)
 
 
2,160
 
 
4
 
 
(3,491
)
 
(8
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs
 
$
34,158
 
$
69
 
$
32,390
 
$
67
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 23

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 

Creston Mascota mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
4,252
 
 
 
 
 
18,184
 

 Production costs
 
$

2,417
 
$

568
 
$

11,837
 
$

651
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
(336
)
 
(78
)
 
(143
)
 
(8
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
2,081
 
$
490
 
$
11,694
 
$
643
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(1,263
)
 
(297
)
 
(4,000
)
 
(220
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
818
 
$
193
 
$
7,694
 
$
423
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Creston Mascota mine
Per Tonne(iii)(x) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore processed (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
 
212
 

 Production costs
 
$

2,417
 
$

—
 
$

11,837
 
$

56
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(v)
 
 
(2,417
)
 
—
 
 
(361
)
 
(2
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
11,476
 
$
54
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

La India mine
Per Ounce of Gold Produced(ii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per ounce)
 

 Gold production (ounces)
 
 
 
 
 
17,033
 
 
 
 
 
22,926
 

 Production costs
 
$

16,139
 
$

948
 
$

20,050
 
$

875
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iv)
 
 
362
 
 
21
 
 
(1,873
)
 
(82
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (co-product basis)
 
$
16,501
 
$
969
 
$
18,177
 
$
793
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(562
)
 
(33
)
 
(332
)
 
(15
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash operating costs (by-product basis)
 
$
15,939
 
$
936
 
$
17,845
 
$
778
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

La India mine
Per Tonne(iii) 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 
(thousands)
 
($ per tonne)
 

 Tonnes of ore processed (thousands of tonnes)
 
 
 
 
 
1,642
 
 
 
 
 
1,534
 

 Production costs
 
$

16,139
 
$

10
 
$

20,050
 
$

13
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(v)
 
 
242
 
 
—
 
 
(2,238
)
 
(1
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minesite operating costs
 
$
16,381
 
$
10
 
$
17,812
 
$
12
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Notes: 

(i)The
information set out in this table reflects the Company's 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine.
(ii)The
total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold
producers. See above for more information on the Company's use of total cash cost per ounce.
(iii)Minesite
costs per tonne is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold producers. See above
for more information on the Company's use of minesite costs per tonne. 
 
 24

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 
 
 
(iv)Under
the Company's revenue recognition policy, revenue from contracts with customers is recognized upon the transfer of control over metals sold to the
customer. As the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced are calculated on a production basis, an inventory adjustment is made to reflect the portion of production not yet recognized as revenue.
Other adjustments include primarily the addition of smelting, refining and marketing charges to production costs.
(v)This
inventory and other adjustments reflect production costs associated with the portion of production still in inventory and smelting, refining and
marketing charges associated with production.
(vi)The
Meliadine mine's cost calculations per ounce of gold produced for the three months ended March 31, 2021 exclude 8,123 ounces of payable
gold production which were produced during this period, as commercial production at the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit has not yet been achieved.
(vii)The
Meliadine mine's cost calculations per tonne for the three months ended March 31, 2021 exclude 77,037 tonnes of ore from the Tiriganiaq
open pit deposit which were processed during this period, as commercial production at the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit has not yet been achieved.
(viii)The
Canadian Malartic mine's cost calculations per ounce of gold produced for the three months ended March 31, 2020 exclude 2,974 ounces of
payable gold production, which were produced prior to the achievement of commercial production at the Barnat deposit on September 30, 2020.
(ix)The
Canadian Malartic mine's cost calculations per tonne for the three months ended March 31, 2020 exclude 135,065 tonnes of ore from the
Barnat deposit, which were processed prior to the achievement of commercial production at the Barnat deposit on September 30, 2020.
(x)The
Creston Mascota mine's cost calculations per tonne for the three months ended March 31, 2021 exclude approximately $2.4 million of
production costs incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2021 following the cessation of mining activities at the Bravo pit during the third quarter of 2020. 
 
 All-in Sustaining Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced 

The World Gold Council ("WGC") is a non-regulatory market development organization for the gold industry. Although the WGC is not a mining industry
regulatory organization, it has worked closely with its member companies to develop relevant non-GAAP measures. The Company follows the guidance on all-in sustaining costs released by the WGC in
November 2018. Adoption of the all-in
sustaining costs metric is voluntary and, notwithstanding the Company's adoption of the WGC's guidance, all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced reported by the Company may not be comparable
to data reported by other gold producers. The Company believes that this measure provides helpful information about operating performance. However, this non-GAAP measure should be considered together
with other data prepared in accordance with IFRS as it is not necessarily indicative of operating costs or cash flow measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

All-in
sustaining costs per ounce is used to show the full cost of gold production from current operations. The Company calculates all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product
basis as the aggregate of total cash costs per ounce on a by-product basis, sustaining capital expenditures (including capitalized exploration), general and administrative expenses (including stock
option expense), lease payments related to sustaining assets and reclamation expenses, and then dividing by the number of ounces of gold produced. The all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold
produced on a co-product basis is calculated in the same manner as the all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced on a by-product basis, except that the total cash costs per ounce on a
co-product basis is used, meaning no adjustment is made for by-product metal revenues. The Company's methodology for calculating all-in sustaining costs per ounce may differ from the methodology used
by other gold producers that disclose all-in sustaining costs per ounce. The Company may change the methodology it uses to calculate all-in sustaining costs per ounce in the future. 

The
following table sets out a reconciliation of production costs to all-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020 on
both a by-product basis (deducting by-product metal revenues from production costs) and co-product basis (without deducting by-product metal revenues). 

25

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 Reconciliation of Production Costs to All-in Sustaining Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

(United States dollars per ounce of gold produced, except where noted)
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 Production costs per the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss) (thousands of United States dollars)
 
$
412,400
 
$
356,102
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Adjusted gold production (ounces)(i)(ii)
 
 
508,681
 
 
408,392
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Production costs per ounce of adjusted gold production
 
$
811
 
$
872
 

 Adjustments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Inventory and other adjustments(iii)
 
 
(14
)
 
17
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (co-product basis)(iv)
 
$
797
 
$
889
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
(63
)
 
(53
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (by-product basis)(iv)
 
$
734
 
$
836
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Adjustments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Sustaining capital expenditures (including capitalized exploration)
 
 
175
 
 
177
 

 General and administrative expenses (including stock option expense)
 
 
88
 
 
75
 

 Non-cash reclamation provision, sustaining leases and other
 
 
10
 
 
11
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 All-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced (by-product basis)
 
$
1,007
 
$
1,099
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 By-product metal revenues
 
 
63
 
 
53
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 All-in sustaining costs per ounce of gold produced (co-product basis)
 
$
1,070
 
$
1,152
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 Notes: 

(i)Adjusted
gold production for the three months ended March 31, 2021 excludes 8,123 ounces of payable production of gold at the Meliadine mine
which were produced during this period, as commercial production at the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit has not yet been achieved.
(ii)Adjusted
gold production for the three months ended March 31, 2020 excludes 2,974 ounces of payable production of gold at the Canadian
Malartic mine, which were produced prior to the achievement of commercial production at the Barnat deposit on September 30, 2020.
(iii)Under
the Company's revenue recognition policy, revenue from contracts with customers is recognized upon the transfer of control over metals sold to the
customer. As the total cash costs per ounce of gold produced are calculated on a production basis, an inventory adjustment is made to reflect the portion of production not yet recognized as revenue.
Other adjustments include primarily the addition of smelting, refining and marketing charges to production costs.
(iv)The
total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold
producers. See "Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures — Total Cash Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced and Minesite Costs per Tonne" for more information on the
Company's use of total cash cost per ounce of gold produced. 
 
26

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 

 Operating Margin 

Operating margin is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data presented by other gold producers. This measure
is calculated by excluding the following from net income (loss) as recorded in the condensed interim consolidated financial statements:

•Income and mining taxes expense •Other (income) expenses •Foreign
currency translation (gain) loss •Loss on derivative financial instruments •
Finance costs •General and administrative •Amortization of property, plant and mine development
•Exploration and corporate development 

The
Company believes that operating margin is a useful measure that reflects the operating performance of its mines associated with the ongoing production and sale of gold and by-product metals.
Management uses this measure internally to plan and forecast future operating results. This measure is intended to provide investors with additional information about the Company's underlying
operating results and should be evaluated in conjunction with net income (loss) and other data prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

The
following table sets out a reconciliation of net income (loss) to operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020. 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

(thousands of United States dollars)
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 Net income (loss) for the period
 
$
136,148
 
$
(21,565
)

 Income and mining taxes expense
 
 
93,440
 
 
44,896
 

 Other (income) expenses
 
 
(2,509
)
 
4,540
 

 Foreign currency translation (gain) loss
 
 
(3,078
)
 
3,846
 

 Loss on derivative financial instruments
 
 
21,066
 
 
42,602
 

 Finance costs
 
 
22,168
 
 
27,762
 

 General and administrative
 
 
44,933
 
 
30,543
 

 Amortization of property, plant, and mine development
 
 
181,115
 
 
153,509
 

 Exploration and corporate development
 
 
28,709
 
 
29,643
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Operating margin
 
$
521,992
 
$
315,776
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 27

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 Operating margin(i) by mine:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
$
93,728
 
$
45,194
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
12,598
 
 
10,851
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
38,739
 
 
35,160
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
49,950
 
 
3,813
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
100,961
 
 
57,226
 

 Hope Bay mine
 
 
11,230
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)
 
 
103,748
 
 
57,046
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
58,703
 
 
41,910
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
26,426
 
 
28,057
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
7,634
 
 
17,591
 

 La India mine
 
 
18,275
 
 
18,928
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total operating margin(i)
 
 
521,992
 
 
315,776
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
181,115
 
 
153,509
 

 Exploration, corporate and other
 
 
111,289
 
 
138,936
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Income before income and mining taxes
 
 
229,588
 
 
23,331
 

 Income and mining taxes expense
 
 
93,440
 
 
44,896
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) for the period
 
$
136,148
 
$
(21,565
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) per share — basic and diluted
 
$
0.56
 
$
(0.09
)

 Cash flows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash provided by operating activities
 
$
356,387
 
$
163,358
 

 Cash used in investing activities
 
$
(527,868
)
$
(178,166
)

 Cash (used in) provided by financing activities
 
$
(100,134
)
$
954,830
 

 Realized prices:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Gold (per ounce)
 
$
1,780
 
$
1,579
 

 Silver (per ounce)
 
$
26.13
 
$
15.74
 

 Zinc (per tonne)
 
$
2,743
 
$
2,217
 

 Copper (per tonne)
 
$
8,958
 
$
5,410
 

 
 28

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 Payable production(iii):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Gold (ounces):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
75,389
 
 
55,223
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
17,689
 
 
14,464
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
34,650
 
 
33,883
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
79,965
 
 
49,341
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
96,126
 
 
69,975
 

 Hope Bay mine
 
 
12,259
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)
 
 
89,550
 
 
64,763
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
60,716
 
 
49,297
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
29,175
 
 
33,310
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
4,252
 
 
18,184
 

 La India mine
 
 
17,033
 
 
22,926
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total gold (ounces)
 
 
516,804
 
 
411,366
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Silver (thousands of ounces):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
203
 
 
160
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
3
 
 
3
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
—
 
 
1
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
24
 
 
20
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
7
 
 
6
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)
 
 
82
 
 
97
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
3
 
 
3
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
373
 
 
517
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
36
 
 
279
 

 La India mine
 
 
16
 
 
20
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total silver (thousands of ounces)
 
 
747
 
 
1,106
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Zinc (tonnes)
 
 
1,867
 
 
510
 

 Copper (tonnes)
 
 
752
 
 
749
 

 
 29

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 Payable metal sold:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Gold (ounces):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
75,285
 
 
38,273
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
14,314
 
 
14,258
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
34,358
 
 
34,740
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
76,281
 
 
58,581
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
98,349
 
 
70,979
 

 Hope Bay mine
 
 
20,221
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)(iv)
 
 
83,556
 
 
64,900
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
59,597
 
 
54,250
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
27,613
 
 
34,997
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
4,878
 
 
16,408
 

 La India mine
 
 
18,834
 
 
23,497
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total gold (ounces)
 
 
513,286
 
 
410,883
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Silver (thousands of ounces):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
199
 
 
175
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
3
 
 
2
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
19
 
 
22
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
8
 
 
8
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)(iv)
 
 
67
 
 
111
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
2
 
 
3
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
361
 
 
560
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
50
 
 
263
 

 La India mine
 
 
19
 
 
22
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total silver (thousands of ounces)
 
 
728
 
 
1,166
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Zinc (tonnes)
 
 
2,660
 
 
1,658
 

 Copper (tonnes)
 
 
754
 
 
754
 

 
 30

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced — co-product basis(v):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
$
727
 
$
806
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
766
 
 
847
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
623
 
 
558
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
1,129
 
 
1,650
 

 Meliadine mine(vi)
 
 
630
 
 
801
 

 Hope Bay mine
 
 
929
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)(vii)
 
 
640
 
 
763
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
799
 
 
811
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
1,165
 
 
990
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
490
 
 
643
 

 La India mine
 
 
969
 
 
793
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Weighted average total cash costs per ounce of gold produced
 
$
797
 
$
889
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced — by-product basis(v):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
$
490
 
$
682
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
761
 
 
845
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
623
 
 
558
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
1,123
 
 
1,644
 

 Meliadine mine(vi)
 
 
628
 
 
799
 

 Hope Bay mine
 
 
929
 
 
—
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)(vii)
 
 
617
 
 
734
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
798
 
 
810
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
838
 
 
747
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
193
 
 
423
 

 La India mine
 
 
936
 
 
778
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Weighted average total cash costs per ounce of gold produced
 
$
734
 
$
836
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Notes: 

(i)Operating
margin is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold producers. See "Non-GAAP
Financial Performance Measures — Operating Margin" for more information on the Company's use of operating margin.
(ii)The
information set out in this table reflects the Company's 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine.
(iii)Payable
production (a non-GAAP non-financial performance measure) is the quantity of mineral produced during a period contained in products that
are or will be sold by the Company, whether such products are sold during the period or held as inventories at the end of the period. Payable production for the three months ended March 31,
2021 includes 8,123 ounces of gold from the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit at the Meliadine mine which were produced during this period, as commercial production at the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit
has not yet been achieved. Payable production for the three months ended March 31, 2020 includes 2,974 ounces of gold from the Canadian Malartic mine, which were produced prior to the
achievement of commercial production at the Barnat deposit on September 30, 2020.
(iv)The
Canadian Malartic mine's payable metal sold excludes the 5.0% net smelter return royalty granted to Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.
(v)The
total cash costs per ounce of gold produced is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold
producers. See "Non-GAAP Financial Performance Measures — Total Cash Costs per Ounce of Gold Produced and Minesite Costs per Tonne" for more information on the
Company's calculation and use of total cash cost per ounce of gold produced.
(vi)The
Meliadine mine's cost calculations per ounce of gold produced for the three months ended March 31, 2021 exclude 8,123 ounces of payable
gold production which were produced during this period, as commercial production at the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit has not yet been achieved.
(vii)The
Canadian Malartic mine's cost calculations per ounce of gold produced for the three months ended March 31, 2020 exclude 2,974 ounces of
payable gold production which were produced prior to the achievement of commercial production at the Barnat deposit on September 30, 2020. 
 
 31

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(thousands of United States dollars, except where noted) 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended 
 

 
 
June 30,
2019 
 
September 30,
2019 
 
December 31,
2019 
 
March 31,
2020 
 
June 30,
2020 
 
September 30,
2020 
 
December 31,
2020 
 
March 31,
2021 
 

 Operating margin(i):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Revenues from mining operations
 
$
526,611
 
$
682,959
 
$
753,099
 
$
671,878
 
$
557,175
 
$
980,612
 
$
928,448
 
$
934,392
 

 Production costs
 
 
279,497
 
 
316,346
 
 
374,969
 
 
356,102
 
 
280,394
 
 
412,803
 
 
374,853
 
 
412,400
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total operating margin(i)
 
 
247,114
 
 
366,613
 
 
378,130
 
 
315,776
 
 
276,781
 
 
567,809
 
 
553,595
 
 
521,992
 

 Operating margin(i) by mine:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Northern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 LaRonde mine
 
 
66,902
 
 
93,223
 
 
111,865
 
 
45,194
 
 
60,954
 
 
144,364
 
 
123,528
 
 
93,728
 

 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
8,882
 
 
12,238
 
 
12,954
 
 
10,851
 
 
11,007
 
 
21,522
 
 
19,965
 
 
12,598
 

 Goldex mine
 
 
25,126
 
 
33,197
 
 
31,200
 
 
35,160
 
 
22,840
 
 
36,350
 
 
50,177
 
 
38,739
 

 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
9,244
 
 
9,227
 
 
3,303
 
 
3,813
 
 
(12,422
)
 
46,032
 
 
44,344
 
 
49,950
 

 Meliadine mine
 
 
15,033
 
 
50,323
 
 
61,970
 
 
57,226
 
 
49,207
 
 
109,313
 
 
107,617
 
 
100,961
 

 Hope Bay mine
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
11,230
 

 Canadian Malartic mine(ii)
 
 
60,232
 
 
70,263
 
 
73,015
 
 
57,046
 
 
45,502
 
 
76,673
 
 
104,009
 
 
103,748
 

 Kittila mine
 
 
8,205
 
 
44,696
 
 
39,666
 
 
41,910
 
 
59,089
 
 
62,807
 
 
38,442
 
 
58,703
 

 Southern Business
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
27,281
 
 
30,003
 
 
28,004
 
 
28,057
 
 
14,585
 
 
37,063
 
 
39,900
 
 
26,426
 

 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
14,863
 
 
12,203
 
 
4,041
 
 
17,591
 
 
11,231
 
 
9,279
 
 
4,573
 
 
7,634
 

 La India mine
 
 
11,346
 
 
11,240
 
 
12,112
 
 
18,928
 
 
14,788
 
 
24,406
 
 
21,040
 
 
18,275
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total operating margin(i)
 
 
247,114
 
 
366,613
 
 
378,130
 
 
315,776
 
 
276,781
 
 
567,809
 
 
553,595
 
 
521,992
 

 Impairment reversal
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(345,821
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 

 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
124,203
 
 
143,293
 
 
150,319
 
 
153,509
 
 
129,465
 
 
173,173
 
 
174,954
 
 
181,115
 

 Exploration, corporate and other
 
 
80,091
 
 
83,864
 
 
69,687
 
 
138,936
 
 
29,765
 
 
61,947
 
 
84,647
 
 
111,289
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Income before income and mining taxes
 
 
42,820
 
 
139,456
 
 
503,945
 
 
23,331
 
 
117,551
 
 
332,689
 
 
293,994
 
 
229,588
 

 Income and mining taxes expense
 
 
15,048
 
 
62,789
 
 
172,250
 
 
44,896
 
 
12,250
 
 
110,035
 
 
88,777
 
 
93,440
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) for the period
 
$
27,772
 
$
76,667
 
$
331,695
 
$
(21,565
)
$
105,301
 
$
222,654
 
$
205,217
 
$
136,148
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) per share — basic
 
$
0.12
 
$
0.32
 
$
1.39
 
$
(0.09
)
$
0.44
 
$
0.92
 
$
0.85
 
$
0.56
 

 Net income (loss) per share — diluted
 
$
0.12
 
$
0.32
 
$
1.38
 
$
(0.09
)
$
0.43
 
$
0.91
 
$
0.84
 
$
0.56
 

 Cash flows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash provided by operating activities
 
$
126,301
 
$
349,233
 
$
257,468
 
$
163,358
 
$
162,648
 
$
462,538
 
$
403,510
 
$
356,387
 

 Cash used in investing activities
 
$
(233,238
)
$
(245,829
)
$
(167,211
)
$
(178,166
)
$
(177,738
)
$
(205,893
)
$
(247,015
)
$
(527,868
)

 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
$
34,906
 
$
37,249
 
$
(28,091
)
$
954,830
 
$
(914,418
)
$
(268,802
)
$
(74,432
)
$
(100,134
)

 

Notes: 

(i)Operating
margin is not a recognized measure under IFRS and this data may not be comparable to data reported by other gold producers. See "Non-GAAP
Financial Performance Measures — Operating Margin" for more information on the Company's use of operating margin.
(ii)The
information set out in this table reflects the Company's 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine. 
 
 32

 

 
 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (thousands of United States dollars, except share amounts) (Unaudited) 
 

 
 
As at
March 31,
2021 
 
As at
December 31,
2020 
 

 ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Current assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 $
126,466
 
 $
402,527
 

 Short-term investments
 
 
 5,486
 
 
 3,936
 

 Restricted cash (Note 20)
 
 
 23,077
 
 
 —
 

 Trade receivables (Note 6)
 
 
 16,371
 
 
 11,867
 

 Inventories (Note 7)
 
 
 669,551
 
 
 630,474
 

 Income taxes recoverable
 
 
 6,210
 
 
 3,656
 

 Fair value of derivative financial instruments (Notes 6 and 17)
 
 
 36,862
 
 
 35,516
 

 Other current assets (Note 8A)
 
 
 162,661
 
 
 159,212
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total current assets
 
 
 1,046,684
 
 
 1,247,188
 

 Non-current assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Goodwill
 
 
 407,792
 
 
 407,792
 

 Property, plant and mine development (Notes 9 and 11)
 
 
 7,518,813
 
 
 7,325,418
 

 Investments (Notes 6, 10 and 17)
 
 
 282,158
 
 
 375,103
 

 Other assets (Note 8B)
 
 
 297,369
 
 
 259,254
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total assets
 
 $
9,552,816
 
 $
9,614,755
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Current liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
 $
362,473
 
 $
363,801
 

 Reclamation provision
 
 
 11,313
 
 
 15,270
 

 Interest payable
 
 
 25,509
 
 
 12,184
 

 Income taxes payable
 
 
 32,036
 
 
 102,687
 

 Lease obligations (Note 11)
 
 
 22,429
 
 
 20,852
 

 Fair value of derivative financial instruments (Notes 6 and 17)
 
 
 1,508
 
 
 904
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
 455,268
 
 
 515,698
 

 Non-current liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Long-term debt (Note 12)
 
 
 1,565,888
 
 
 1,565,241
 

 Lease obligations (Note 11)
 
 
 94,404
 
 
 99,423
 

 Reclamation provision
 
 
 710,168
 
 
 651,783
 

 Deferred income and mining tax liabilities
 
 
 969,830
 
 
 1,036,061
 

 Other liabilities
 
 
 67,940
 
 
 63,336
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
 3,863,498
 
 
 3,931,542
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Common shares (Note 13):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Outstanding — 243,810,637 common shares issued, less 770,936 shares held in trust
 
 
 5,752,660
 
 
 5,751,479
 

 Stock options (Notes 13 and 14)
 
 
 182,647
 
 
 175,640
 

 Contributed surplus
 
 
 37,254
 
 
 37,254
 

 Deficit
 
 
 (315,251
)
 
 (366,412
)

 Other reserves (Note 15)
 
 
 32,008
 
 
 85,252
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total equity
 
 
 5,689,318
 
 
 5,683,213
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total liabilities and equity
 
 $
9,552,816
 
 $
9,614,755
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Commitments and contingencies (Note 20)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 See accompanying notes

33

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (LOSS) (thousands of United States dollars, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 REVENUES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Revenues from mining operations (Note 16)
 
 $
934,392
 
 $
671,878
 

 COSTS, EXPENSES AND OTHER INCOME
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Production(i)
 
 
 412,400
 
 
 356,102
 

 Exploration and corporate development
 
 
 28,709
 
 
 29,643
 

 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
 181,115
 
 
 153,509
 

 General and administrative
 
 
 44,933
 
 
 30,543
 

 Finance costs
 
 
 22,168
 
 
 27,762
 

 Loss on derivative financial instruments (Note 17)
 
 
 21,066
 
 
 42,602
 

 Foreign currency translation (gain) loss
 
 
 (3,078
)
 
 3,846
 

 Other (income) expenses (Note 18)
 
 
 (2,509
)
 
 4,540
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Income before income and mining taxes
 
 
 229,588
 
 
 23,331
 

 Income and mining taxes expense
 
 
 93,440
 
 
 44,896
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) for the period
 
 $
136,148
 
 $
(21,565
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) per share — basic and diluted (Note 13)
 
 $
0.56
 
 $
(0.09
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash dividends declared per common share
 
 $
0.35
 
 $
0.20
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Note: 

(i)Exclusive
of amortization, which is shown separately. 
 
 See accompanying notes

34

 
 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (thousands of United States dollars) (Unaudited) 

 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 Net income (loss) for the period
 
 $
136,148
 
 $
(21,565
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to net income (loss):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Derivative financial instruments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to net income (loss) (Note 15)
 
 
 294
 
 
 —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 294
 
 
 —
 

 Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to net income (loss):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Pension benefit obligations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Remeasurement loss on pension benefit obligations
 
 
 (444
)
 
 (355
)

 Income tax impact
 
 
 118
 
 
 133
 

 Equity securities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net change in fair value of equity securities at FVTOCI
 
 
 (61,198
)
 
 (23,522
)

 Income tax impact
 
 
 7,830
 
 
 —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 (53,694
)
 
 (23,744
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Other comprehensive loss for the period
 
 
 (53,400
)
 
 (23,744
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Comprehensive income (loss) for the period
 
 $
82,748
 
 $
(45,309
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 See accompanying notes

35

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) 
 
 

 
 
Common Shares
Outstanding 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Stock
Options 
 
Contributed
Surplus 
 
 
 
Other
Reserves 
 
Total
Equity 
 

 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Deficit 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2019
 
 
239,619,035
 
$
5,589,352
 
$
180,160
 
$
37,254
 
$
(647,330
)
$
(47,922
)
$
5,111,514
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(21,565
)
 
—
 
 
(21,565
)

 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(222
)
 
(23,522
)
 
(23,744
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total comprehensive loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(21,787
)
 
(23,522
)
 
(45,309
)

 Transactions with owners:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Shares issued under employee stock option plan (Notes 13 and 14A)
 
 
683,688
 
 
34,634
 
 
(6,560
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
28,074
 

 Stock options (Notes 13 and 14A)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,573
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,573
 

 Shares issued under incentive share purchase plan (Note 14B)
 
 
144,605
 
 
5,855
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5,855
 

 Shares issued under dividend reinvestment plan
 
 
231,487
 
 
10,297
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
10,297
 

 Dividends declared ($0.20 per share)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(47,785
)
 
—
 
 
(47,785
)

 Restricted Share Unit plan, Performance Share Unit plan, and Long Term Incentive Plan (Notes 13 and 14C,D)
 
 
(346,329
)
 
(28,621
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(28,621
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at March 31, 2020
 
 
240,332,486
 
$
5,611,517
 
$
180,173
 
$
37,254
 
$
(716,902
)
$
(71,444
)
$
5,040,598
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2020
 
 
242,884,314
 
$
5,751,479
 
$
175,640
 
$
37,254
 
$
(366,412
)
$
85,252
 
$
5,683,213
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
136,148
 
 
—
 
 
136,148
 

 Other comprehensive loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(326
)
 
(53,074
)
 
(53,400
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
135,822
 
 
(53,074
)
 
82,748
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Transfer of gain on disposal of equity securities at FVOCI to deficit
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
170
 
 
(170
)
 
—
 

 Transactions with owners:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Shares issued under employee stock option plan (Notes 13 and 14A)
 
 
182,313
 
 
10,175
 
 
(1,774
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
8,401
 

 Stock options (Notes 13 and 14A)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
8,781
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
8,781
 

 Shares issued under incentive share purchase plan (Note 14B)
 
 
115,278
 
 
6,682
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
6,682
 

 Shares issued under dividend reinvestment plan
 
 
211,851
 
 
11,861
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
11,861
 

 Dividends declared ($0.35 per share)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(84,831
)
 
—
 
 
(84,831
)

 Restricted Share Unit plan, Performance Share Unit plan, and Long Term Incentive Plan (Notes 13 and 14C,D)
 
 
(354,055
)
 
(27,537
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(27,537
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at March 31, 2021
 
 
243,039,701
 
$
5,752,660
 
$
182,647
 
$
37,254
 
$
(315,251
)
$
32,008
 
$
5,689,318
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 See accompanying notes

36

 
 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (thousands of United States dollars) (Unaudited) 
 

 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net income (loss) for the period
 
 $
136,148
 
 $
(21,565
)

 Add (deduct) adjusting items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
 181,115
 
 
 153,509
 

 Deferred income and mining taxes
 
 
 51,436
 
 
 24,732
 

 Unrealized (gain) loss on currency and commodity derivatives (Note 17)
 
 
 (741
)
 
 38,432
 

 Unrealized loss on warrants (Note 17)
 
 
 31,810
 
 
 1,863
 

 Stock-based compensation (Note 14)
 
 
 18,036
 
 
 15,018
 

 Foreign currency translation (gain) loss
 
 
 (3,078
)
 
 3,846
 

 Other
 
 
 503
 
 
 (11,048
)

 Changes in non-cash working capital balances:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Trade receivables
 
 
 (4,504
)
 
 1,282
 

 Income taxes
 
 
 (68,483
)
 
 (22,130
)

 Inventories
 
 
 25,842
 
 
 7,677
 

 Other current assets
 
 
 (2,270
)
 
 11,923
 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
 
 (21,685
)
 
 (58,690
)

 Interest payable
 
 
 12,258
 
 
 18,509
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash provided by operating activities
 
 
 356,387
 
 
 163,358
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Additions to property, plant and mine development (Note 9)
 
 
 (181,886
)
 
 (168,811
)

 Acquisition of TMAC, net of cash and cash equivalents (Note 5)
 
 
 (185,898
)
 
 —
 

 Advance to TMAC to fund repayment of debt (Note 5)
 
 
 (105,000
)
 
 —
 

 Payment to repurchase the Hope Bay royalty (Note 5)
 
 
 (50,000
)
 
 —
 

 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and mine development
 
 
 462
 
 
 101
 

 Net purchases of short-term investments
 
 
 (1,550
)
 
 (2,144
)

 Net proceeds from sale of equity securities and other investments (Note 10)
 
 
 1,473
 
 
 8,759
 

 Purchases of equity securities and other investments (Note 10)
 
 
 (5,469
)
 
 (16,071
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash used in investing activities
 
 
 (527,868
)
 
 (178,166
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Proceeds from Credit Facility (Note 12)
 
 
 240,000
 
 
 1,000,000
 

 Repayment of Credit Facility (Note 12)
 
 
 (240,000
)
 
 —
 

 Repayment of lease obligations
 
 
 (5,424
)
 
 (3,729
)

 Dividends paid
 
 
 (72,970
)
 
 (37,494
)

 Repurchase of common shares for stock-based compensation plans (Note 14)
 
 
 (34,606
)
 
 (35,930
)

 Proceeds on exercise of stock options (Note 14A)
 
 
 8,401
 
 
 28,074
 

 Common shares issued
 
 
 4,465
 
 
 3,909
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash (used in) provided by financing activities
 
 
 (100,134
)
 
 954,830
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 (4,446
)
 
 (6,646
)

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents during the period
 
 
 (276,061
)
 
 933,376
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
 
 
 402,527
 
 
 321,897
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
 
 $
126,466
 
 $
1,255,273
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Interest paid
 
 $
7,726
 
 $
7,232
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Income and mining taxes paid
 
 $
108,653
 
 $
46,127
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 See accompanying notes

37

 

 

 
 AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise
indicated) (Unaudited) March 31, 2021 

 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION 

Agnico
Eagle Mines Limited ("Agnico Eagle" or the "Company") is principally engaged in the production and sale of gold, as well as related activities such as exploration and mine development. The
Company's mining operations are located in Canada, Mexico and Finland and the Company has exploration activities in Canada, Europe, Latin America and the United States. Agnico Eagle is a public
company incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada with its head and registered office located at 145 King Street East, Suite 400, Toronto, Ontario, M5C 2Y7.
The Company's common shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. Agnico Eagle sells its gold production into the world market. 

These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements were authorized for issuance by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") on April 29, 2021. 

 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

A)Statement of Compliance

The
accompanying condensed interim consolidated financial statements of Agnico Eagle have been prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standard 34 Interim Financial
Reporting ("IAS 34") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") in United States ("US") dollars. These condensed interim consolidated
financial statements do not include all of the disclosures required by International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") for annual audited consolidated financial statements. 

These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2020 annual audited consolidated financial statements, including the accounting policies and
notes thereto, included in the Annual Report and Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2020, which were prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

In
the opinion of management, these condensed interim consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal and recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the
financial position as at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 and the results of operations and cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and
March 31, 2020. 

Operating
results for the three months ended March 31, 2021 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year ending December 31, 2021. 

B)Basis of Presentation

Overview

These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost method except for certain financial assets and liabilities which are measured
at fair value. The condensed interim consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand, except where otherwise indicated. 

Subsidiaries

These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Agnico Eagle and its consolidated subsidiaries. All intercompany balances, transactions, income and expenses and gains
or losses have been eliminated on consolidation. Subsidiaries are consolidated where Agnico Eagle has the ability to exercise control. Control of an investee exists when Agnico Eagle is exposed to
variable returns from the Company's involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an
investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the elements of control. 

Joint Arrangements

A
joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement between two or more
parties. This exists only when the decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns of the arrangement require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. 

A
joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties have joint control of the arrangement and have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements include the Company's interests in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the joint operations from the date that joint control 

38

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (Continued) 

commenced.
Agnico Eagle's 50% interest in each of Canadian Malartic Corporation and Canadian Malartic GP, the general partnership that holds the Canadian Malartic mine located in Quebec, has
been accounted for as a joint operation. 

 3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

These
condensed interim consolidated financial statements follow the same accounting policies and methods of their application as the December 31, 2020 annual audited consolidated financial
statements. 

 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

Property,
Plant and Equipment: Proceeds before Intended Use (Amendments to IAS 16) 

In
May 2020, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment that clarify the accounting for the net proceeds from selling any items produced while bringing an item of
property, plant and mine development to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. The amendments prohibit entities from deducting
amounts received from selling items produced from the cost of property, plant and mine development while the Company is preparing the asset for its intended use. Instead, sales proceeds and the cost
of producing these items will be recognized in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after
January 1, 2022, with earlier application permitted. The amendments apply retrospectively, but only to assets brought to the location and condition necessary for them to be capable of operating
in the manner intended by management on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements in which the Company first applies the amendments. Adoption of the standard
on the effective date and applying it retrospectively to the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2021 will result in a restatement to increase revenue from mining operations and related production
costs from the sale of pre-commercial gold production in 2021, with a corresponding increase in the cost of property plant and mine development. The Company will continue to evaluate the extent of the
impact of the amendments on its financial statements. 

 Comparative Figures 

Certain
figures in the comparative condensed interim consolidated financial statements have been reclassified from statements previously presented to conform to the presentation of these financial
statements as at and for the three months ended March 31, 2021. 

 4. SIGNIFICANT JUDGMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 

The
preparation of these condensed interim consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported
in the condensed interim consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the condensed interim consolidated financial
statements are reasonable; however, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. The areas involving significant judgments, estimates and assumptions have been set out in Note 4
to the Company's annual audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

 5. ACQUISITION 

 TMAC 

On
February 2, 2021, the Company completed the purchase of all the issued and outstanding common shares and equity instruments exchangeable for common shares of TMAC which owns and operates the
Hope Bay mine, and also owns exploration properties in the Kitikmeot region of Nunavut. 

Management
determined that the assets and processes comprised a business and therefore accounted for the transaction as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. The aggregate
preliminary purchase consideration for the acquired assets, net of the assumed liabilities is as follows: 

 

 
 Purchase of TMAC common shares for C$2.20 per share
 
$
225,580
 

 
 39

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 5. ACQUISITION (Continued) 

Assets
acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at their preliminary estimates of fair value at the date of acquisition as follows: 

 

 
 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
39,682
 

 
 Restricted cash
 
 
21,796
 

 
 Inventories
 
 
84,576
 

 
 Other current assets
 
 
2,028
 

 
 Property, plant and mine development
 
 
206,507
 

 
 Deferred income tax asset(i)
 
 
109,700
 

 
 Accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities(ii)
 
 
(84,805
)

 
 Advance due to Agnico Eagle
 
 
(105,000
)

 
 Reclamation provision
 
 
(48,904
)

 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total assets acquired, net of liabilities assumed
 
 $
225,580
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Notes:
 

(i)Included
with deferred income and mining tax liabilities in the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets (ii)Included
$50.0 million payable to repurchase the Hope Bay 1.5% net smelter return royalty. 

 
 

The
fair values allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are preliminary, and are subject to adjustment based on further analysis and evaluation over the course of the measurement period
which will not exceed twelve months from the acquisition date. Where preliminary values are used in accounting for a business combination, they may be materially adjusted retrospectively in subsequent
periods. In particular, the Company will continue to evaluate new information about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date pertaining to the fair value of property, plant
and mine development, deferred income tax asset and reclamation provision. 

Immediately
prior to the closing of the transaction and in accordance with its terms, TMAC long-term debt was retired and the Company partially funded the repayment. The acquisition also triggered a
one-time option for TMAC to buy-back a 1.5% net smelter return royalty on the Hope Bay property from Maverix Metals Inc. which was exercised prior to closing for $50.0 million
with the payment made shortly after the acquisition date. 

The
Company incurred acquisition-related costs of $2.9 million which are recorded in other (income) expenses in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). 

The
results of operations have been consolidated with those of the Company from the date of acquisition and included in the Hope Bay operating segment. Pro forma disclosures as if TMAC was
acquired at the beginning of the fiscal year have not been presented as they are not considered material to the Company's condensed interim consolidated financial statements. 

 6. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT 

Fair
value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. All assets and
liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the condensed interim consolidated financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, described, as follows, based on
the lowest-level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: 

Level 1 — Unadjusted
quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities; 

Level 2 — Quoted
prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the
asset or liability; and 

Level 3 — Prices
or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (supported by
little or no market activity). 

The
fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs and the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs. 

40

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 6. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Continued) 

 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 

For
items that are recognized at fair value on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing their classification at the end
of each reporting period. 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2021, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair
value measurements. 

The
fair values of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, restricted cash, and accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their carrying values due to their short-term nature. 

The
following table sets out the Company's financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as at March 31, 2021 using the fair value hierarchy: 

 

 
 
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 
Total 
 

 
 Financial assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Trade receivables
 
$
—
 
$
16,371
 
$
—
 
$
16,371
 

 
 Equity securities (FVTOCI)
 
 
198,029
 
 
26,277
 
 
—
 
 
224,306
 

 
 Fair value of derivative financial instruments
 
 
—
 
 
94,714
 
 
—
 
 
94,714
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total financial assets
 
$
198,029
 
$
137,362
 
$
—
 
$
335,391
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Financial liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Fair value of derivative financial instruments
 
$
—
 
$
1,508
 
$
—
 
$
1,508
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total financial liabilities
 
$
—
 
$
1,508
 
$
—
 
$
1,508
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 Valuation Techniques 

 Trade Receivables 

Trade
receivables from provisional invoices for concentrate sales are valued using quoted forward rates derived from observable market data based on the month of expected settlement (classified within
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy). 

 Equity Securities and Warrants 

Equity
securities representing shares of publicly traded entities are recorded at fair value using quoted market prices (classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy). Equity
securities representing shares of non-publicly traded entities are recorded at fair value using external broker-dealer quotations corroborated by option pricing models (classified within
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy). The Company also holds share purchase warrants of certain publicly traded entities where it has an investment in equity securities. Share purchase warrants
are accounted for as derivative financial instruments (below) and presented as part of investments in the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets. 

 Derivative Financial Instruments 

Derivative
financial instruments classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy are recorded at fair value using external broker-dealer quotations corroborated by option pricing models
or option pricing models that utilize a variety of inputs that are a combination of quoted prices and market-corroborated inputs. 

 Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Measured and Recognized at Fair Value 

Long-term
debt is recorded on the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2021 at amortized cost. The fair value of long-term debt is determined by applying a discount rate,
reflecting the credit spread based on the Company's credit rating to future related cash flows which is categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. See Note 12. 

Lease
obligations are recorded on the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2021 at amortized cost. The fair value of lease obligations is the present value of the future
lease payments discounted at the Company's current incremental borrowing rate. It is remeasured when there is a change in the lease term, future lease payments or changes in the assessment of whether
the 

41

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 6. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (Continued) 

Company
will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option. The fair value of lease obligations is not materially different from the carrying amounts as at March 31, 2021. 

 7. INVENTORIES 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2021, impairment losses of $4.1 million (three months ended March 31, 2020 — $7.7 million)
were recorded within production costs to reduce the carrying value of inventories to their net realizable value. 

 8. OTHER ASSETS 

A)Other Current Assets

 

 
 
 
As at March 31,
2021 
 
As at December 31,
2020 
 

 
 Federal, provincial and other sales taxes receivable
 
$
66,023
 
$
67,666
 

 
 Prepaid expenses
 
 
77,970
 
 
72,502
 

 
 Other
 
 
18,668
 
 
19,044
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total other current assets
 
$
162,661
 
$
159,212
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

B)Other Assets

 

 
 
 
As at March 31,
2021 
 
As at December 31,
2020 
 

 
 Non-current ore in stockpiles and on leach pads
 
$
230,033
 
$
198,044
 

 
 Non-current prepaid expenses
 
 
27,624
 
 
26,945
 

 
 Non-current loans receivable
 
 
21,421
 
 
21,247
 

 
 Non-current other receivables
 
 
13,060
 
 
8,238
 

 
 Other
 
 
5,231
 
 
4,780
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total other assets
 
$
297,369
 
$
259,254
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 9. PROPERTY, PLANT AND MINE DEVELOPMENT 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2021, $182.1 million of additions (year ended December 31, 2020 — $987.9 million) were
capitalized to property, plant and mine development. 

Total
borrowing costs capitalized to property, plant and mine development during the three months ended March 31, 2021 were approximately $0.4 million (year ended December 31,
2020 — $2.8 million) at a capitalization rate of 1.13% (year ended December 31, 2020 — 1.18%). 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2021, the Company produced and sold pre-commercial gold production from the Tiriganiaq open pit deposit at the Meliadine mine. The Company deducts
revenues from mining operations earned prior to commercial production
from the cost of the related property, plant and mine development. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, the Company earned $15.2 million of pre-commercial production revenue
(year ended December 31, 2020 — $59.2 million). 

Assets
with a net book value of $2.2 million were disposed of by the Company during the three months ended March 31, 2021 (year ended December 31,
2020 — $15.2 million), resulting in a loss on disposal of $1.8 million (year ended December 31,
2020 — $14.2 million) which was recorded in the other (income) expenses line item in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). 

See
Note 20 to these condensed interim consolidated financial statements for capital commitments. 

42

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 10. INVESTMENTS 
 

 
 
 
As at March 31,
2021 
 
As at December 31,
2020 
 

 
 Equity securities
 
$
224,306
 
$
282,356
 

 
 Share purchase warrants
 
 
57,852
 
 
92,747
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total investments
 
$
282,158
 
$
375,103
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 11. LEASES 

The
Company is party to a number of contracts that contain a lease, including office facilities, storage facilities, and various plant and equipment. Leases of low value assets, short-term leases and
leases with variable payments proportional to the rate of use of the underlying asset do not give rise to a lease obligation and a right-of-use asset, and expenses are included in operating costs in
the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 
 Amortization expense on right-of-use assets
 
$
4,258
 
$
3,504
 

 
 Interest expense on lease obligations
 
$
514
 
$
475
 

 
 Additions and modifications to right-of-use assets, net of disposals
 
$
5,443
 
$
940
 

 
 

Additions
to right-of-use assets include $1.8 million related to the acquisition of TMAC. 

 12. LONG-TERM DEBT 

The
following table sets out details of the Company's long-term debt as at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020: 

 

 
 
 
 
 
As at March 31,
2021 
 
As at December 31,
2020 
 

 
 
 
Interest Rates 
 
Principal
Amount 
 
Deferred
Financing
Costs 
 
Carrying
Amount 
 
Fair Value 
 
Carrying
Amount 
 
Fair Value 
 

 
 Senior Notes
 
2.78%-6.77%
 
$
1,575,000
 
$
(6,712
)
$
1,568,288
 
$
1,747,336
 
$
1,568,009
 
$
1,827,020
 

 
 Credit Facility
 
Variable
 
 
—
 
 
(2,400
)
 
(2,400
)
 
(2,400
)
 
(2,768
)
 
(2,768
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total long-term debt
 
 
 
$
1,575,000
 
$
(9,112
)
$
1,565,888
 
$
1,744,936
 
$
1,565,241
 
$
1,824,252
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 Credit Facility 

During
the three months ended March 31, 2021, Credit Facility drawdowns totaled $240.0 million and repayments totaled $240.0 million. As at March 31, 2021,
$1,199.1 million was available for future drawdown under the Credit Facility (December 31, 2020 — $1,199.1 million). Credit Facility
availability is reduced by outstanding letters of credit which were $0.9 million as at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. 

43

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 13. EQUITY 

 Net Income (Loss) Per Share 

The
following table sets out the weighted average number of common shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 
 Net income (loss) for the period
 
$
136,148
 
$
(21,565
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding — basic (in thousands)
 
 
242,992
 
 
240,222
 

 
 Add: Dilutive impact of common shares related to the RSU plan, PSU plan and LTIP
 
 
594
 
 
—
 

 
 Add: Dilutive impact of employee stock options
 
 
601
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding — diluted (in thousands)
 
 
244,187
 
 
240,222
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Net income (loss) per share — basic and diluted
 
$
0.56
 
$
(0.09
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Diluted
net income (loss) per share has been calculated using the treasury stock method. In applying the treasury stock method, outstanding employee stock options with an exercise price greater than
the average quoted market price of the common shares for the period outstanding are not included in the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share as the impact would be anti-dilutive. 

For
the three months ended March 31, 2021, 1,603,800 (2020 — nil) employee stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income (loss)
per share as their impact would have been anti-dilutive. 

 14. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

A)Employee Stock Option Plan ("ESOP")

The
following table sets out activity with respect to Agnico Eagle's outstanding stock options: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2021 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
 
Number of
Stock
Options 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price 
 
Number of
Stock
Options 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price 
 

 
 Outstanding, beginning of
period 
 
 
 
 
 
3,421,404
 
C$
65.27
 
 
4,122,300
 
C$
54.86
 

 
 Granted
 
 
1,590,750
 
 
89.59
 
 
1,561,150
 
 
79.98
 

 
 Exercised
 
 
(182,313
)
 
58.77
 
 
(683,688
)
 
53.85
 

 
 Forfeited
 
 
(20,424
)
 
80.99
 
 
(38,125
)
 
67.72
 

 
 Expired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Outstanding, end of period
 
 
4,809,417
 
C$
73.50
 
 
4,961,637
 
C$
62.80
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Options exercisable, end of period
 
 
2,373,316
 
C$
67.06
 
 
2,330,735
 
C$
58.55
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

The
average share price of Agnico Eagle's common shares during the three months ended March 31, 2021 was C$81.97 (2020 — C$70.72). 

44

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 14. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued) 

Agnico
Eagle estimated the fair value of stock options under the Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following weighted average assumptions: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 
 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
0.54%
 
 
1.92%
 

 
 Expected life of stock options (in years)
 
 
2.4
 
 
2.4
 

 
 Expected volatility of Agnico Eagle's share price
 
 
38.0%
 
 
27.5%
 

 
 Expected dividend yield
 
 
2.2%
 
 
1.2%
 

 
 

The
Company uses historical volatility to estimate the expected volatility of Agnico Eagle's share price. The expected term of stock options granted is derived from historical data on employee
exercise and post-vesting employment termination experience. 

Compensation
expense related to the ESOP amounted to $8.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 (2020 — $6.6 million). 

B)Incentive Share Purchase Plan ("ISPP")

During
the three months ended March 31, 2021, 115,278 common shares were subscribed for under the ISPP (2020 — 144,605) for a value of
$6.7 million (2020 — $5.9 million). The total compensation cost recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2021 related to the ISPP
was $2.2 million (2020 — $2.0 million). 

C)Restricted Share Unit ("RSU") Plan

During
the three months ended March 31, 2021, 317,114 (2020 — 303,037) RSUs were granted with a grant date fair value of $23.6 million
(2020 — $18.4 million). In the first three months of 2021, the Company funded the RSU plan by transferring $23.6 million
(2020 — $18.4 million) to an employee benefit trust that then purchased common shares of the Company in the open market. 

Compensation
expense related to the RSU plan was $7.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 (2020 — $6.6 million). Compensation
expense related to the RSU plan is included as part of the general and administrative line item of the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). 

D)Performance Share Unit ("PSU") Plan

During
the three months ended March 31, 2021, 148,500 (2020 — 167,500) PSUs were granted. In the first three months of 2021, the Company funded the PSU
plan by transferring $11.1 million (2020 — $10.1 million) to an employee benefit trust that then purchased common shares of the Company in the
open market. 

Compensation
expense related to the PSU plan was $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 (2020 — $2.3 million). Compensation
expense related to the PSU plan is included as part of the general and administrative line item of the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). 

45

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 15. OTHER RESERVES 

The
following table sets out the movements in other reserves for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020: 

 

 
 
 
Equity
securities reserve 
 
Cash flow
hedge reserve 
 
Total 
 

 
 Balance at December 31, 2019
 
$
(47,922
)
$
—
 
$
(47,922
)

 
 Net change in fair value of equity securities at FVTOCI
 
 
(23,522
)
 
—
 
 
(23,522
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Balance at March 31, 2020
 
$
(71,444
)
$
—
 
$
(71,444
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Balance at December 31, 2020
 
$
97,216
 
$
(11,964
)
$
85,252
 

 
 Net change in cash flow hedge reserve
 
 
—
 
 
294
 
 
294
 

 
 Transfer of gain on disposal of equity securities at FVTOCI to deficit
 
 
(170
)
 
—
 
 
(170
)

 
 Net change in fair value of equity securities at FVTOCI
 
 
(53,368
)
 
—
 
 
(53,368
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Balance at March 31, 2021
 
$
43,678
 
$
(11,670
)
$
32,008
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

The
cash flow hedge reserve represents the settlement of an interest rate derivative related to the Senior Notes issued in 2020. The reserve will be amortized over the term of the Notes. Amortization
of the reserve is included in the finance costs line item in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). 

 16. REVENUES FROM MINING OPERATIONS 

The
Company has recognized the following amounts relating to revenue in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss): 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 
 Revenues from contracts with customers
 
$
934,853
 
$
672,978
 

 
 Provisional pricing adjustments on concentrate sales
 
 
(461
)
 
(1,100
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total revenues from mining operations
 
$
934,392
 
$
671,878
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

The
following table sets out the disaggregation of revenues by metal: 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended
March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 
 Revenues from contracts with customers:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Gold
 
$
905,925
 
$
649,679
 

 
 Silver
 
 
20,442
 
 
18,897
 

 
 Zinc
 
 
2,793
 
 
1,054
 

 
 Copper
 
 
5,693
 
 
3,348
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total revenues from contracts with customers
 
$
934,853
 
$
672,978
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 17. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

 Currency Risk Management 

The
Company uses foreign exchange economic hedges to reduce the variability in expected future cash flows arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is primarily exposed to
currency fluctuations relative to the US dollar as a significant portion of the Company's operating costs and capital expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies; primarily the Canadian
dollar, the Euro and the Mexican peso. These potential currency fluctuations increase the volatility of, and could have a significant 

46

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 17. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) 

impact
on, the Company's production costs and capital expenditures. The economic hedges relate to a portion of the foreign currency denominated cash outflows arising from foreign currency denominated
expenditures. 

As
at March 31, 2021, the Company had outstanding derivative contracts related to $1,272.3 million of 2021 and 2022 expenditures (December 31,
2020 — $1,188.0 million). The Company recognized mark-to-market adjustments in the loss on derivative financial instruments line item in the condensed
interim consolidated statements of income (loss). The Company did not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements. 

Mark-to-market
gains and losses related to foreign exchange derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value based on broker-dealer quotations corroborated by option pricing models that
utilize period-end forward pricing of the applicable foreign currency to calculate fair value. 

The
Company's other foreign currency derivative strategies in 2021 and 2020 consisted mainly of writing US dollar call options with short maturities to generate premiums that would, in essence,
enhance the spot transaction rate received when exchanging US dollars for Canadian dollars and Mexican pesos. All of these derivative transactions expired prior to period-end such that no
derivatives were outstanding as at March 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. The call option premiums were recognized in the loss on derivative financial instruments line item in the
condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). 

 Commodity Price Risk Management 

To
mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating diesel fuel prices, the Company uses derivative financial instruments as economic hedges of the price risk on a portion of diesel fuel costs
associated primarily with its Nunavut operations' diesel fuel exposure as it relates to operating costs. There were derivative financial instruments outstanding as at March 31, 2021 relating to
20.0 million gallons of heating oil (December 31, 2020 — 24.0 million). The related mark-to-market adjustments prior to settlement were
recognized in the loss on derivative financial instruments line item in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). The Company did not apply hedge accounting to these
arrangements. 

Mark-to-market
gains and losses related to heating oil derivative financial instruments are based on broker-dealer quotations that utilize period-end forward pricing to calculate fair value. 

 Share Purchase Warrants 

The
Company holds warrants to acquire equity securities of certain issuers in the mining industry. These warrants are not part of the Company's core operations, and accordingly, gains and losses from
these investments are not representative of the Company's performance during the year. 

The
following table sets out a summary of the amounts recognized in the loss on derivative financial instruments line item in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss). 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 
 Premiums realized on written foreign exchange call options
 
$
(946
)
$
(585
)

 
 Unrealized loss on warrants
 
 
31,810
 
 
1,863
 

 
 Realized (gain) loss on currency and commodity derivatives
 
 
(9,057
)
 
2,892
 

 
 Unrealized (gain) loss on currency and commodity derivatives
 
 
(741
)
 
38,432
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Loss on derivative financial instruments
 
$
21,066
 
$
42,602
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Unrealized
gains and losses on financial instruments that did not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized through the loss on derivative financial instruments line item of the condensed interim
consolidated statements of income (loss) and through the unrealized loss on warrants and the unrealized gain (loss) on currency and commodity derivatives line items of the condensed interim
consolidated statements of cash flows. 

47

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 18. OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSES 

The
following table sets out amounts recognized in the other (income) expenses line item in the condensed interim consolidated statements of income (loss): 

 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 
 

 
 
 
2021 
 
2020 
 

 
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and mine development (Note 9)
 
$
1,823
 
$
664
 

 
 Gain on sale of exploration properties
 
 
(10,000
)
 
—
 

 
 Interest income
 
 
(727
)
 
(2,517
)

 
 Temporary suspension and other costs due to COVID-19
 
 
4,078
 
 
3,949
 

 
 Other
 
 
2,317
 
 
2,444
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total other (income) expenses
 
$
(2,509
)
$
4,540
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

On
March 19, 2021, the Company completed the sale of certain non-strategic exploration properties in exchange for aggregate consideration of $10.0 million in cash and shares of the
purchasers, receivable over time on the transaction anniversary each year until March 19, 2024. As all exploration costs related to these properties were expensed when incurred, the carrying
value of the properties at the transaction closing was nil and the Company recognized a gain on sale equal to the consideration amount of $10.0 million. The amount receivable of
$9.3 million is included in the other current assets and other assets line items in the condensed interim consolidated balance sheets. 

In
response to the Quebec Order, to close all non-essential businesses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company took steps to ramp down its mining and exploration activities in the
Abitibi region of Quebec and Nunavut. Activities at each of the sites and properties located in those regions were placed on temporary suspension or reduced operations, but returned to near normal
levels in the second quarter of 2020. 

In
the three months ended March 31, 2021, other costs due to the COVID-19 pandemic include primarily payroll costs of Nunavut-based employees who were not able to return to work to
prevent or curtail community transmission of COVID-19. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, temporary suspension and other costs due to COVID-19 included primarily payroll and other
incidental costs associated with maintaining the sites and properties, and payroll costs associated with employees who were not working during the period of reduced or suspended operations. 

48

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 19. SEGMENTED INFORMATION 
 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 
 

 
 
 
Revenues from
Mining
Operations 
 
Production
Costs 
 
Exploration and
Corporate
Development 
 
Segment
Income
(Loss) 
 

 
 Northern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 LaRonde mine
 
$
145,070
 
$
(51,342
)
$
—
 
$
93,728
 

 
 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
25,283
 
 
(12,685
)
 
—
 
 
12,598
 

 
 Goldex mine
 
 
61,252
 
 
(22,513
)
 
—
 
 
38,739
 

 
 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
137,289
 
 
(87,339
)
 
(225
)
 
49,725
 

 
 Meliadine mine
 
 
160,725
 
 
(59,764
)
 
—
 
 
100,961
 

 
 Hope Bay mine
 
 
35,305
 
 
(24,075
)
 
—
 
 
11,230
 

 
 Canadian Malartic joint operation
 
 
159,216
 
 
(55,468
)
 
(698
)
 
103,050
 

 
 Kittila mine
 
 
107,363
 
 
(48,660
)
 
—
 
 
58,703
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Northern Business
 
 
831,503
 
 
(361,846
)
 
(923
)
 
468,734
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Southern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
58,424
 
 
(31,998
)
 
—
 
 
26,426
 

 
 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
10,051
 
 
(2,417
)
 
—
 
 
7,634
 

 
 La India mine
 
 
34,414
 
 
(16,139
)
 
—
 
 
18,275
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Southern Business
 
 
102,889
 
 
(50,554
)
 
—
 
 
52,335
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Exploration
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(27,786
)
 
(27,786
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Segment totals
 
$
934,392
 
$
(412,400
)
$
(28,709
)
$
493,283
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total segments income
 
$
493,283
 

 
 Corporate and other:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
(181,115
)

 
 General and administrative
 
 
(44,933
)

 
 Finance costs
 
 
(22,168
)

 
 Loss on derivative financial instruments
 
 
(21,066
)

 
 Foreign currency translation gain
 
 
3,078
 

 
 Other income
 
 
2,509
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Income before income and mining taxes
 
$
229,588
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 49

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 19. SEGMENTED INFORMATION (Continued) 

 
 

 
 
 
Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 
 

 
 
 
Revenues from
Mining
Operations 
 
Production
Costs 
 
Exploration and
Corporate
Development 
 
Segment
Income
(Loss) 
 

 
 Northern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 LaRonde mine
 
$
65,830
 
$
(20,636
)
$
—
 
$
45,194
 

 
 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
22,643
 
 
(11,792
)
 
—
 
 
10,851
 

 
 Goldex mine
 
 
55,118
 
 
(19,958
)
 
—
 
 
35,160
 

 
 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
93,179
 
 
(89,366
)
 
(756
)
 
3,057
 

 
 Meliadine mine
 
 
111,481
 
 
(54,255
)
 
—
 
 
57,226
 

 
 Canadian Malartic joint operation
 
 
105,702
 
 
(48,656
)
 
(2,979
)
 
54,067
 

 
 Kittila mine
 
 
85,581
 
 
(43,671
)
 
—
 
 
41,910
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Northern Business
 
 
539,534
 
 
(288,334
)
 
(3,735
)
 
247,465
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Southern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
63,938
 
 
(35,881
)
 
—
 
 
28,057
 

 
 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
29,428
 
 
(11,837
)
 
—
 
 
17,591
 

 
 La India mine
 
 
38,978
 
 
(20,050
)
 
—
 
 
18,928
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Southern Business
 
 
132,344
 
 
(67,768
)
 
—
 
 
64,576
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Exploration
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(25,908
)
 
(25,908
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Segment totals
 
$
671,878
 
$
(356,102
)
$
(29,643
)
$
286,133
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total segments income
 
$
286,133
 

 
 Corporate and other:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Amortization of property, plant and mine development
 
 
(153,509
)

 
 General and administrative
 
 
(30,543
)

 
 Finance costs
 
 
(27,762
)

 
 Loss on derivative financial instruments
 
 
(42,602
)

 
 Foreign currency translation loss
 
 
(3,846
)

 
 Other expenses
 
 
(4,540
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Income before income and mining taxes
 
$
23,331
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 50

 

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED
NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated)
(Unaudited)
March 31, 2021 

 19. SEGMENTED INFORMATION (Continued) 

The
following table sets out total assets by segment: 

 

 
 
 
As at
March 31,
2021 
 
As at
December 31,
2020 
 

 
 Northern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 LaRonde mine
 
$
908,717
 
$
852,171
 

 
 LaRonde Zone 5 mine
 
 
75,677
 
 
71,545
 

 
 Goldex mine
 
 
299,498
 
 
296,713
 

 
 Meadowbank Complex
 
 
1,014,274
 
 
1,037,459
 

 
 Meliadine mine
 
 
2,171,952
 
 
2,198,564
 

 
 Hope Bay mine
 
 
312,441
 
 
—
 

 
 Canadian Malartic joint operation
 
 
1,531,699
 
 
1,542,916
 

 
 Kittila mine
 
 
1,554,357
 
 
1,590,795
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Northern Business
 
 
7,868,615
 
 
7,590,163
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Southern Business:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Pinos Altos mine
 
 
462,339
 
 
458,786
 

 
 Creston Mascota mine
 
 
5,763
 
 
8,008
 

 
 La India mine
 
 
229,324
 
 
228,120
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total Southern Business
 
 
697,426
 
 
694,914
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Exploration
 
 
497,018
 
 
434,809
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Corporate and other
 
 
489,757
 
 
894,869
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Total assets
 
$
9,552,816
 
$
9,614,755
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 20. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

As
part of its ongoing business and operations, the Company has been required to provide assurance in the form of letters of credit for environmental and site restoration costs, custom credits,
government grants and other general corporate purposes. As at March 31, 2021, the total amount of these guarantees was $484.0 million. No amount in the outstanding letters of credit
relates to obligations of the Hope Bay mine. 

Restricted
cash represents investments and deposits that were pledged as collateral security for environmental reclamation bonding, for payments for land access, and for payments under a production
lease for mineral rights at the Hope Bay mine prior to the acquisition by the Company. 

Security
for environmental bonding for the Hope Bay mine is issued through demand bonds, a product underwritten by insurance companies. As at March 31, 2021, the Company had
$23.7 million of demand bonds outstanding that require 60% collateral, provided through $14.2 million of cash deposits held by the insurance company issuer and $8.1 million of
demand bonds outstanding that require 40% collateral, provided through $3.2 million of cash-collateralized letters of credit held by the insurance company issuer. 

As
at March 31, 2021 the Company had $83.9 million of commitments related to capital expenditures. 

 21. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 

 Dividends Declared 

On
April 29, 2021, Agnico Eagle announced that the Board approved the payment of a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per common share (a total value of approximately
$85.0 million), payable on June 15, 2021 to holders of record of the common shares of the Company on June 1, 2021. 

51

 

QuickLinks

Exhibit 99.1

First Quarter Report 2021

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (thousands of United States dollars, except where noted)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (thousands of United States dollars, except share amounts) (Unaudited)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (LOSS) (thousands of United States dollars, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)
AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (thousands of United States dollars) (Unaudited)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited)
AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (thousands of United States dollars) (Unaudited)

AGNICO EAGLE MINES LIMITED NOTES TO CONDENSED INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (thousands of United States dollars, except share and per share amounts, unless otherwise indicated) (Unaudited) March 31,
2021