EX-99.1
2
tm2229998d4_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 Stock Symbol:
 AEM (NYSE and TSX)

 
 

 For further information:
 Investor Relations

 
 (416) 947-1212

 

AGNICO EAGLE PUBLISHES FIRST CLIMATE ACTION
REPORT

 

Toronto (November 28, 2022) – Agnico
Eagle Mines Limited (NYSE: AEM, TSX: AEM) ("Agnico Eagle" or the "Company") reports that it has released its first
Climate Action Report (the "Report"), aligned with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures recommendations.
The Company is committed to be Net-Zero by 2050 in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions and, to this end, it has set an interim
carbon reduction target of 30% of 2021 Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. This inaugural Report outlines the Company's
proposed plan to meet its climate targets and to remain among the lowest greenhouse gas emitters of the industry's senior gold companies,
as well as the strategies of the Company to adapt to and mitigate the impacts of climate change. With the contribution from the sustainability,
energy and innovation teams at each mining operation, the Company believes it has established a credible pathway to decarbonization and
is committed to continuously assess and adapt technological advances.

 

The Report supplements the Company's 2021 Sustainability
Report, which discusses aspects of climate change and related business risks and opportunities. Additionally, the Report is aligned with
the UN Sustainable Development Goals with respect to climate and the Company's response to CDP (formerly known as the Climate Disclosure
Project).

 

"Climate change is one of society's greatest
challenges and as a sustainability leader in the global mining industry, we also aim to be a climate action leader. The risks associated
with a changing climate have never been clearer and we understand the importance of managing these risks to build a better business, capitalize
on future opportunities and communicate effectively with our stakeholders," said Agnico Eagle's President and CEO Ammar Al-Joundi.
"We hold ourselves accountable to high ESG standards and have strategies in place to adapt to and mitigate the impacts of climate
change," added Mr. Al-Joundi.

 

Highlights of the Report include:

 

·Climate Strategy – The Company's strategy to adapt to and mitigate the impacts of climate
change is built upon Agnico Eagle's business strategy and its three strategic pillars – performance, pipeline and people

 

 
 
 

 

·Greenhouse Gas Emissions Targets – Agnico Eagle continues to be committed to addressing climate-change
and reaching Net-Zero by 2050 in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions. Supporting this commitment, the Company has established
an interim carbon reduction target of 30% by 2030 (based on 2021 levels), representing an approximate reduction of 350 kilotonnes of CO2
equivalent in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions

 

·Governance Structure – Agnico Eagle's governance structure creates clear lines of accountability,
provides flexibility to adapt to unforeseen circumstances and ensures sustainable practices are considered in all aspects of its business.
Accountability for climate matters at the Board level operates through the Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainable Development Committee,
at the management level through the Steering Committee on Climate-related Risks and Opportunities and at the site level through each mine's
Operations Management and Climate Action Teams

 

·Climate Scenario Analysis – The Company developed scenarios based on the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change and International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis to assess physical and transitional climate-related risks
and inform the development of its climate strategy

 

·Pathway to Decarbonization – Key actions identified by Agnico Eagle to achieve its 2030 interim
target and Net-Zero by 2050 target focus on three primary areas:

 

oEnergy efficiency initiatives, including energy reduction initiatives and opportunities at each site,
such as energy management systems, heat recovery systems and ventilation on demand

 

oTechnology transition initiatives, such as electrification of material handling equipment, including the
potential for a trolley-assist system for haul trucks at Detour Lake and increased use of battery electric vehicles at our operations

 

oIncreased renewable energy initiatives, including a combination of the greening of the electrical grids
that supply energy to our sites and the development or deployment of cleaner power supplies at our operations

 

A changing climate affects us all and the Report
outlines the initiatives the Company has undertaken and plans to make, toward a lower-carbon. Together with its stakeholders, Agnico Eagle
will work to respond to the challenges and opportunities in the years ahead to find the right solutions for the Company and the environment.

 

 2 
 
 

 

The 2022 Climate Action Report can be accessed
here.

 

 

About Agnico Eagle

 

Agnico Eagle is a senior Canadian gold mining
company, producing precious metals from operations in Canada, Australia, Finland and Mexico. It has a pipeline of high-quality exploration
and development projects in these countries as well as in the United States and Colombia. Agnico Eagle is a partner of choice within the
mining industry, recognized globally for its leading environmental, social and governance practices. The Company was founded in 1957 and
has consistently created value for its shareholders, declaring a cash dividend every year since 1983.

 

For further information regarding Agnico Eagle,
contact Investor Relations at investor.relations@agnicoeagle.com or call (416) 947-1212.

 

Forward-Looking Statements

 

The information in this news release has
been prepared as at November 25, 2022. Certain statements contained in this news release constitute "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking
information" under the provisions of Canadian provincial securities laws and are referred to herein as "forward-looking
statements". All statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address circumstances, events, activities or
developments that could, or may or will occur are forward looking statements. When used in this news release, the words
"anticipate", "could", "estimate", "expect", "forecast", "future",
"plan", "possible", "potential", "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Such statements include, without limitation: statements regarding the Company's Net-Zero by 2050 in
absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions target and interim carbon reduction target of 30% by 2030; statements regarding the
Company's proposed pathways to decarbonization, including expected annual potential CO2e reductions; and other statements
with respect to the Company's plans with respect to climate change. Such statements reflect the Company's views as at the date of
this news release and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and undue reliance should not be placed on such
statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon a number of factors and assumptions that, while considered
reasonable by Agnico Eagle as of the date of such statements, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and
competitive uncertainties and contingencies. The material factors and assumptions used in the preparation of the forward looking
statements contained herein, which may prove to be incorrect, include, but are not limited to, the assumptions set forth herein and
in management's discussion and analysis ("MD&A") and the Company's Annual Information Form ("AIF") for the
year ended December 31, 2021 filed with Canadian securities regulators and that are included in its Annual Report on Form 40-F for
the year ended December 31, 2021 ("Form 40-F") filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the
"SEC") as well as: that there are no significant disruptions affecting the Company's climate change plans; that the
relevant metal prices, foreign exchange rates and prices for key supplies will be consistent with Agnico Eagle's expectations; and
that there are no material variations in the current tax and regulatory environment. Many factors, known and unknown, could cause
the actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Such risks
include, but are not limited to: the possibility that the Company's plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will not be completed
in the expected timeframe or result in the anticipated reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; general economic, business and
political conditions; and changes in governmental and environmental regulation. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and
other factors that may affect the Company's ability to achieve the expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements
contained in this news release, see the AIF and MD&A filed on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and included in the Form 40-F filed on
EDGAR at www.sec.gov, as well as the Company's other filings with the Canadian securities regulators and the SEC. Other than as
required by law, the Company does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements.

 

 3