EX-99.1
2
d641876dex991.htm
EX-1

EX-1

 

 Exhibit 1 

 TSX: CCO NYSE:
CCJ
 
 

 
 website: cameco.com 
 currency: Cdn (unless noted)
 2121 – 11th Street West, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, S7M
1J3 Canada Tel: (306) 956-6200 Fax: (306) 956-6201 
New Member Appointed to Cameco’s Board of Directors 
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, December 4, 2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Cameco (TSX: CCO; NYSE: CCJ) announced today that its board of directors appointed Catherine A. Gignac as a board member effective January 1, 2014
until the next shareholders’ meeting, at which all directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders. Gignac, a resident of Mississauga,
Ontario, has over 30 years’ experience in the Canadian mining industry as a geologist, mining equity research analyst and as a consultant. Over a distinguished career, she held positions with several leading firms including Merrill Lynch
Canada, Wellington West Capital Markets Inc., UBS Investment Bank, RBC Capital Markets, Dundee Capital Markets Inc., and Loewen Ondaatje McCutcheon Limited. As an analyst she covered the mining and minerals sector including large to small cap,
precious and base metal mining and has extensive experience in project value analysis and mergers and acquisitions. “We are pleased to welcome
Catherine to Cameco’s board of directors,” said board chair Neil McMillan. “Her extensive mining industry and capital market expertise will provide valuable insight as we implement Cameco’s strategy.” 
Gignac is a member of the CSA Group’s mining technical advisory and monitoring committee, the CFA Institute’s mineral resources analyst group, the
Canadian Institute of Mining & Metallurgy, the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada and the Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation of Canada. 
She also serves on the boards of St. Andrew Goldfields Ltd. Trevali Mining Corporation and Corvus Gold Inc. 
Profile Cameco is one of the world’s largest
uranium producers, a significant supplier of conversion services and one of two Candu fuel manufacturers in Canada. Our competitive position is based on our controlling ownership of the world’s largest high-grade reserves and low-cost
operations. Our uranium products are used to generate clean electricity in nuclear power plants around the world, including Ontario where we are a limited partner in North America’s largest nuclear electricity generating facility. We also
explore for uranium in the Americas, Australia and Asia. 
 Page 1 

 Our shares trade on the Toronto and New York stock exchanges. Our head office is in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. 
- End - 

Investor inquiries:
 
Rachelle Girard
 
(306) 956-6403
 

 

Media inquiries:
 
Rob Gereghty
 
(306) 956-6190
 

 

 Page 2