EX-99.1
3
ef20043624_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 NEWS RELEASE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Coeur Completes Acquisition of SilverCrest
 
 
 Chicago, Illinois – February 14, 2025 – Coeur
 Mining, Inc. (“Coeur”) (NYSE: CDE) is pleased to announce the completion of its acquisition of SilverCrest Metals Inc. (“SilverCrest”) by Coeur (the “Transaction”) pursuant to the definitive agreement (the “Agreement”) previously announced in the
 joint news release of Coeur and SilverCrest dated October 4, 2024.
 
 
 Under the terms of the Agreement, Coeur acquired all of the issued and outstanding common shares of SilverCrest, with SilverCrest shareholders receiving 1.6022 Coeur
 common shares for each SilverCrest common share. Coeur issued 239,331,799 shares in the Transaction.
 
 
 Coeur plans to share additional information about the expected benefits of the Transaction, including 2025 production and cost guidance, when it releases its fourth
 quarter and full-year 2024 operational and financial results, which is planned for Wednesday, February 19, 2025 after the New York Stock Exchange closes for trading.
 
 
 BMO Capital Markets acted as financial advisor to Coeur. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC also acted as a financial advisor to Coeur. Goodmans LLP and Gibson, Dunn &
 Crutcher LLP acted as Coeur’s legal advisors.
 
 
 About Coeur
 Coeur Mining, Inc. is a U.S.-based, well-diversified, growing precious metals producer with five wholly-owned operations: the Las Chispas silver-gold mine in Sonora,
 Mexico, the Palmarejo gold-silver complex in Chihuahua, Mexico, the Rochester silver-gold mine in Nevada, the Kensington gold mine in Alaska and the Wharf gold mine in South Dakota. In addition, Coeur wholly-owns the Silvertip polymetallic critical
 minerals exploration project in British Columbia.
 
 
 Cautionary Statements
 This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of securities legislation in the United States and Canada, including statements regarding the
 acquisition and integration of SilverCrest. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause Coeur’s actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any
 future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the risk that anticipated production, cost and expense levels are not attained, the risks and hazards inherent
 in the mining business (including risks inherent in developing and expanding large-scale mining projects, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, weather or geologically-related conditions), changes in the market prices of gold and silver and
 a sustained lower price or higher treatment and refining charge environment, the uncertainties inherent in Coeur’s production, exploration and development activities, including risks relating to permitting and regulatory delays (including the
 impact of government shutdowns) and mining law changes, ground conditions, grade and recovery variability, any future labor disputes or work stoppages (involving Coeur and its subsidiaries or third parties), the risk of adverse outcomes in
 litigation, the uncertainties inherent in the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, impacts from Coeur’s future acquisition of new mining properties or businesses, risks associated with the continued integration of the recent acquisition of
 SilverCrest, the loss of access or insolvency of any third-party refiner or smelter to whom Coeur markets its production, materials and equipment availability, inflationary pressures, continued access to financing sources, the effects of
 environmental and other governmental regulations and government shut-downs, the risks inherent in the ownership or operation of or investment in mining properties or businesses in foreign countries, Coeur’s ability to raise additional financing
 necessary to conduct its business, make payments or refinance its debt, as well as other uncertainties and risk factors set out in filings made from time to time with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Canadian securities
 regulators, including, without limitation, Coeur’s most recent report on Form 10-K. Actual results, developments and timetables could vary significantly from the estimates presented. Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on
 forward-looking statements. Coeur disclaims any intent or obligation to update publicly such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additionally, Coeur undertakes no obligation to comment on
 analyses, expectations or statements made by third parties in respect of Coeur, its financial or operating results or its securities. This does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale.
 
 
 
 1
 
 
 
 
 

 
 NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 For Additional Information
 Coeur Mining, Inc.
 200 S. Wacker Drive, Suite 2100
 Chicago, Illinois 60606
 Attention: Jeff Wilhoit, Senior Director, Investor Relations
 Phone: (312) 489-5800
 www.coeur.com
 
 
 Source: Coeur Mining
 
 
 
 
 2