EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE - ELDORADO GOLD COMPLETES ACQUISTION OF QMX GOLD

ego_ex991

 Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS RELEASE

April 7, 2021

 

Eldorado Gold Completes Acquisition of QMX Gold

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (TSX: ELD; NYSE: EGO)
(“Eldorado” or “the Company”) and QMX Gold
Corporation (TSX-V: QMX) (“QMX”) are pleased to
announce the successful acquisition by Eldorado of all of the
outstanding common shares (the “QMX Shares”) in the
capital of QMX not already owned by Eldorado, by way of a statutory
plan of arrangement under the provisions of the Business Corporations Act (Ontario)
(the “Arrangement”). The Arrangement became effective
at 12:01 a.m. (Eastern Time) on April 7, 2021 (the “Effective
Time”) resulting in QMX becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Eldorado.

 

“We
are very pleased to complete the acquisition of QMX, which
significantly increases Eldorado’s position in the Abitibi
Greenstone Belt and is consistent with our strategy to invest in
world-class mining jurisdictions. Eldorado is a committed partner
for mining in Quebec, with exploration and operational success
across our Lamaque operations. The addition of QMX to our portfolio
opens a range of opportunities to expand our activities in the
region and to leverage our existing infrastructure and
Eldorado’s strong operational, exploration and stakeholder
expertise,” said George Burns, Eldorado’s President and
Chief Executive Officer.

 

Completion of the Arrangement
 

Under
the terms of the Arrangement, each holder of QMX Shares is entitled
to receive, for each QMX Share held immediately prior to the
Effective Time, (i) C$0.075 in cash and (ii) 0.01523 of a common
share (the “Eldorado Shares”) in the capital of
Eldorado (together, the “Arrangement Consideration”),
for total consideration of C$0.30 per QMX Share (based on the
closing price of the Eldorado Shares on January 20,
2021).

 

With
QMX now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Eldorado intends
to de-list the QMX Shares from the TSX Venture Exchange as soon as
practicable. Eldorado also intends to submit an application to the
applicable securities regulators to have QMX cease to be a
reporting issuer and terminate its public reporting obligations.
Prior to the completion of the Arrangement, Eldorado owned,
directly or indirectly, or exercised control or direction over,
68,125,000 QMX Shares representing approximately 15.55% of the
issued and outstanding QMX Shares prior to the completion of the
Arrangement.

 

Information for Former QMX Shareholders
 

In
order to receive the Arrangement Consideration in exchange for QMX
Shares, registered shareholders of QMX must complete, sign, date
and return the letter of transmittal that was mailed to each QMX
shareholder prior to the Effective Time. The letter of transmittal
is also available under QMX’s profile on SEDAR at
www.sedar.com.

 

For
those shareholders of QMX whose QMX Shares are registered in the
name of a broker, investment dealer, bank, trust company, trust or
other intermediary or nominee, they should contact such nominee for
assistance in depositing their QMX Shares and should follow the
instructions of such intermediary or nominee.

 

 

 

 

Warrants and Options
 

Pursuant
to the Arrangement, each QMX stock option (each, a “QMX
Option”) outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time
automatically vested and was immediately cancelled in exchange for
a cash payment equal to the excess, if any, of: (i) the product of
the number of QMX Shares underlying such QMX Options and C$0.30;
over (ii) the applicable aggregate exercise price of such QMX
Options. All QMX warrants (each, a “QMX Warrant”)
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will remain
outstanding and, following the Effective Time, each QMX Warrant
shall entitle the holder thereof to receive, upon exercise, the
Arrangement Consideration in lieu of a QMX Share.

 

Additional Information
 

Full
details of the Arrangement are set out in the arrangement agreement
dated January 20, 2021 between Eldorado and QMX, which has been
filed by QMX under its profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
In addition, further information regarding the Arrangement is
contained in QMX’s management information circular dated
February 9, 2021 (the “Circular”) prepared in
connection with the special meeting of the QMX shareholders held on
March 23, 2021 and filed on www.sedar.com.
All shareholders are urged to read the Circular as it contains
additional important information concerning the
Arrangement.

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities. Eldorado
Shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

About QMX
 

QMX is
a Canadian based resource company. QMX is systematically exploring
its extensive property position in the Val d’Or mining camp
in the Abitibi District of Quebec. QMX is currently drilling in the
Val d’Or East portion of its land package focused on the
Bonnefond Deposit and in the Bourlamaque Batholith. In addition to
its extensive land package QMX owns the strategically located
Aurbel gold mill and tailings facility.

 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations

Jeff
Wilhoit, Interim Head of Investor Relations

604.376.1548
or 1.888.353.8166 jeff.wilhoit@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.616.2296
or 1.888.363.8166 louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com
 

Eldorado and QMX Head Office

1188
Bentall 5, 550 Burrard Street

Vancouver,
BC V6C 2B5

 

 

 

 

Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as “intend”,
“opportunity” or the negatives thereof or variations of
such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events
or results “may”, “could”,
“would”, “might” or “will” be
taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: opportunities to further Eldorado’s operating
activities in Quebec; de-listing the QMX Shares from the TSX
Venture Exchange; and submitting an application to have QMX cease
to be a reporting issuer. Forward-looking statements and
forward-looking information by their nature are based on
assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, market
uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about: how the
world-wide economic and social impact of COVID-19 is managed and
the duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic; timing and cost
of construction and exploration; the geopolitical, economic,
permitting and legal climate that we operate in; the future price
of gold and other commodities; the global concentrate market;
exchange rates; anticipated costs, expenses and working capital
requirements; production, mineral reserves and resources and
metallurgical recoveries; the impact of acquisitions, dispositions,
suspensions or delays on our business; and the ability to achieve
our goals. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this
release.
 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: global
outbreaks of infectious diseases, including COVID-19; timing and
cost of construction, and the associated benefits; recoveries of
gold and other metals; geopolitical and economic climate (global
and local), risks related to mineral tenure and permits; gold and
other commodity price volatility; information technology systems
risks; continued softening of the global concentrate market; risks
regarding potential and pending litigation and arbitration
proceedings relating to our business, properties and operations;
expected impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of
the reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; financing risks; regulatory risks
and liabilities including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production;
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and
recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative
nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility and
the price of our common shares; competition; loss of key employees;
and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well as
those risk factors discussed in the sections titled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk factors in
our business” in the Company’s most recent Annual
Information Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to
carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our most recent
Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company
name, which discussion is incorporated by reference in this
release, for a fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties
that affect the Company’s business and
operations.
 

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.
 

Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services
Provider (as that term is defined in policies of the TSX Venture
Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of
this release.