EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Blueprint

 Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

NEWS
RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

 May
13, 2019

 

Eldorado Gold Announces New Senior Secured Credit
Facility

 

Vancouver,
British Columbia – Eldorado Gold Corporation
(“Eldorado,” the “Company” or
“We”) is pleased to announce that the Company has
received commitments from a syndicate of lenders for a US$450
million Senior Secured Credit Facility (the
“Facility”). The Facility consists of a US$200 million
term loan (the “Term Loan”) and a US$250 million
revolving credit facility (the “RCF”). The Facility
will replace the existing revolving credit facility established by
HSBC Bank Canada and certain other lenders.

 

The
Facility is subject to completion of customary closing conditions,
with expected completion of conditions precedent on or prior to the
end of Q2 2019.

 

Eldorado
has received commitments for the Facility from HSBC, Bank of
Montreal, National Bank of Canada, BNP Paribas, Bank of America
N.A. Canada Branch, Export Development Canada, and Ressources
Québec Inc. The Joint Lead Arrangers for the Facility were
HSBC, BMO Capital Markets and National Bank Financial
Markets.

 

Term
Loan and Revolving Credit Facility
 

The
Company has outstanding approximately US$71 million in letters of
credit issued to secure certain obligations in connection with its
operations, which, for the purposes of the Facility, are deemed to
be outstanding under the Facility.

 

Table
1: Key terms of the Facility

 

 

Term Loan

Revolving Credit Facility (RCF)

Amount

US$200
million

US$250
million

Type

Senior,
secured, and to be fully drawn at closing

Senior,
secured, revolving, and a portion to be deemed outstanding at
closing

Purpose

Together
with other proceeds, to redeem the 6.125% Senior Notes due
2020

General
corporate, working capital and capital expenditures

Repayments

Six
equal semi-annual payments from June 30, 2020

Outstanding
amounts due four years from closing

Interest

LIBOR
plus margin of 2.25% - 3.25%

 

 

 

 

About
Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado is a gold
and base metals producer with mining, development and exploration
operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, Serbia, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto
Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).
 

Contacts
 

Investor
Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018 or
1.888.353.8166 peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.687.4018 or
1.888.353.8166 louiseb@eldoradogold.com
 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

 

This news release contains forward looking statements and forward
looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian and
U.S. securities laws. Often, but not always, forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information can be identified by the
use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
"scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or
"believes" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and
phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results
"may", "could", "would", "might" or "will" be taken, occur or be
achieved. Forward-looking statements or information herein include,
but are not limited to the completion of the transactions in
connection with the new Senior Secured Credit Facility, the
redemption of the existing unsecured notes due 2020.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information and even though our
management believes that the assumptions made and the expectations
represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there
can be no assurance that the forward-looking statement or
information will prove to be accurate. Furthermore, should one or
more of the risks, uncertainties or other factors materialize, or
should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may
vary materially from those described in forward-looking statements
or information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors
include, among others, the following: the need to negotiate and
execute a [credit agreement] and related documents; the need for
continued cooperation of the lenders; gold price volatility; the
need to obtain any required consents and related documents,
discrepancies between actual and estimated production, mineral
reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries; mining
operational and development risk; litigation risks; regulatory
restrictions, including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; risks of sovereign investment; currency fluctuations;
speculative nature of gold exploration; global economic climate;
dilution; share price volatility; competition; loss of key
employees; additional funding requirements; and defective title to
mineral claims or property, as well as those factors discussed in
the sections entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” and
“Risk Factors” in the Company's Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F dated March 29, 2019.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.