EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS RELEASE

 

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO

August 9, 2021

 
 

Eldorado Gold Announces Launch of US$500 Million

Senior Notes Offering
 

VANCOUVER, BC – Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado”, the “Company”
or “We”) is pleased to announce that the Company
intends to offer up to US$500 million aggregate principal amount of
senior notes due 2029 (the “Notes”), subject to market
and other conditions. The interest rate and other terms of the
Notes will be determined based on prevailing market
conditions.
 

Eldorado intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes
to redeem its outstanding US$234 million 9.500% Senior Secured
Second Lien Notes due June 2024, to repay all amounts outstanding
under its existing term loan facility, to repay all amounts
outstanding under its existing revolving credit facility, to pay
fees and expenses in connection with the foregoing, and for general
corporate purposes. Eldorado has obtained the requisite consent of
its lenders for the sale of the Notes under the Third Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 13, 2019 among the
Company, as borrower, and HSBC Bank Canada, as administrative
agent, among others.
 

The Notes have not been registered under the United States
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities
Act”), or the securities laws of any state and may not be
offered or sold absent registration under the Securities Act or an
applicable exemption from the registration requirements thereof.
The Notes will be offered and sold only to persons reasonably
believed to be qualified institutional buyers in accordance with
Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to certain “non-U.S.
persons” outside the United States in reliance on Regulation
S under the Securities Act and in each case pursuant to available
prospectus exemptions from securities laws of British Columbia. The
Notes will be offered and sold outside of the United States
(including in Canada) on a private placement basis pursuant to
certain exemptions from applicable securities laws.
 

This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of
these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer,
solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or
qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction or
an exemption therefrom. This press release is being issued
pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 135c under the
Securities Act.
 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado is a gold and base metals producer with mining,
development and exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece,
Romania, and Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado’s common shares trade on the
Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE: EGO).
 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations
 

Lisa Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757.2237 or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com

 

 

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-Looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as
“anticipates”, “believes”,
“continue”, “expects”, “is
expected” or “intends” or the negatives thereof
or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results “may”, “could”,
“would”, “might” or “will” be
taken, occur or be achieved. Forward-looking statements or
information contained in this release include, but are not limited
to, statements or information with respect to: the launch of the
Notes, the terms of the Notes, the completion of the transactions
in connection with the offering of the Notes and the use of the net
proceeds from the sale of the Notes.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information, including
assumptions about: the closing of, and net proceeds from, the sale
of the Notes; how the world-wide economic and social impact of
COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; the geopolitical, economic and legal climate that we
operate in; the repayment of outstanding indebtedness; and
anticipated costs and expenses. In particular, except where
otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of existing
business operations on substantially the same basis as exists at
the time of this release. Even though our management believes that
the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such
statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statements or information will prove to be
accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are
beyond our control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: the need to negotiate and execute a purchase agreement
and related documents; the need for continued cooperation of the
initial purchasers; the need to successfully market the offering;
global outbreaks of infectious diseases, including COVID-19;
geopolitical and economic climate (global and local) risks;
financing risks; as well as those risk factors discussed in the
sections titled “Forward-looking information and risks”
and “Risk factors in our business” in the
Company’s most recent Annual Information Form & Form
40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on
SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

Forward-looking statements and information are designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company’s business
contained in the Company’s reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.