EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
2021 ESTMA REPORT

ego_ex991.htmEXHIBIT 99.1 2 3 4 Reporting Principles 1. Basis of Accounting The Schedule of Payments by Payee and the Schedule of Payments by Project (collectively, the “Schedules") prepared by Eldorado Gold Corporation (the “Company”) for the year ended December 31, 2021 has been prepared in accordance with the financial reporting provisions in Section 9 of the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act, Section 2.3 of the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act – Technical Reporting Specifications and Section 3 of the Extractor Sector Transparency Measures Act – Guidance Version 2 (collectively the “financial reporting framework”). The Schedules are prepared to provide information to the Board of Directors of Eldorado Gold Corporation and the Minister of Natural Resources Canada to assist in meeting the requirements of the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act. As a result, the Schedules may not be suitable for another purpose. 2. Basis of Presentation The Schedules have been prepared using the cash basis of accounting, as required by the financial reporting framework, and therefore exclude any accruals related to payments due to governments. The Schedules include all cash payments made, without inclusion of cash inflows from a government. Where the Company makes a payment to a government that is net of credits from that government, the net payment amount has been presented. 3. Reporting Currency All payments are reported in U.S. dollars which is the reporting currency of the Company. When the Company has made payments in currencies other than its reporting currency, it translates the payments using the exchange rate on the date of the individual payment. 4. Rounding All figures have been rounded to the nearest $10,000 U.S. dollars. 5. Control As required by the financial reporting framework, the Company has reported payments made by entities controlled by the Company. The Company has determined whether it controls an entity in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. 5