EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
ADDITIONAL EXHIBITS

ego_ex991

 

 Exhibit 99.1

ELDORADO GOLD CORPORATION
 

FORM 51-102F3
 

MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT
 
 

Item 1. Name
and Address of Company
 

Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado” or the
“Company”)

Suite
1188 – Bentall 5

550
Burrard Street

Vancouver, British
Columbia V6C 2B5
 

Item 2.

Date of Material Change

 

October
15, 2021
 

Item 3.

News Release

 

A news
release was disseminated and filed on SEDAR on October 15,
2021.
 

Item 4.

Summary of Material Change

 

On
October 15, 2021 Eldorado announced that the Company and its
syndicate of lenders executed an amended and restated senior
secured credit facility (the “fourth amended and restated
credit agreement” or “Fourth ARCA”).
 

 

 

 

Item 5.

Full Description of Material Change

 

On
October 15, 2021 Eldorado announced that the Company and its
syndicate of lenders executed the amended and restated senior
secured credit.
 

The
Fourth ARCA consists of a US$250 million revolving senior secured
credit facility with an option to increase the available credit by
US$100 million through an accordion feature, as well as a letter of
credit facility. The Fourth ARCA amends and replaces the May 2019
US$450 million senior secured credit facility (the “2019
Facility”), which consisted of a US$200 million non-revolving
term loan and a US$250 million revolving credit facility. Under the
Fourth ARCA the revolving credit facility bears interest at LIBOR
plus a margin of 2.125% to 3.25%, dependent on a net leverage ratio
pricing grid. To be consistent with the 6.250% senior unsecured
notes due 2029 (the “Notes”) issued by Eldorado on
August 26, 2021, the Fourth ARCA allows for greater flexibility for
a broad range of financing alternatives for the development of the
Kassandra assets.
 

The net
proceeds from the sale of Notes were used in part to redeem the
outstanding 9.5% senior secured second lien notes due 2024 and to
repay outstanding amounts under the 2019 Facility.
 

Cautionary Note about Forward-Looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
report are forward-looking statements or information within the
meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, these
forward-looking statements and forward-looking information can be
identified by the use of words such as “anticipates”,
“believes”, “continue”,
“expects”, “is expected” or
“intends” or the negatives thereof or variations of
such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events
or results “may”, “could”,
“would”, “might” or “will” be
taken, occur or be achieved. Forward-looking statements or
information contained in this report include, but are not limited
to, statements or information with respect to our strengthened
balance sheet and financial position and funding alternatives for
the development of our Kassandra assets.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information, including
assumptions about: funding alternatives for the development of our
Kassandra assets; how the world-wide economic and social impact of
COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; the geopolitical, economic and legal climate that we
operate in; the repayment of outstanding indebtedness; and
anticipated costs and expenses. In particular, except where
otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of existing
business operations on substantially the same basis as exists at
the time of this report. Even though our management believes that
the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such
statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statements or information will prove to be
accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are
beyond our control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: global outbreaks of infectious diseases, including
COVID-19; geopolitical and economic climate (global and local)
risks; financing risks; as well as those risk factors discussed in
the sections titled “Forward-looking information and
risks” and “Risk factors in our business” in the
Company’s most recent Annual Information Form & Form
40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on
SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this report, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

Forward-looking statements and information are designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company’s business
contained in the Company’s reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S..
 

 

 

 

Item 6.

Reliance on 7.1(2) of National Instrument 51-102

 

Not
applicable.
 

Item 7.

Omitted Information

 

Not
applicable.
 

Item 8.

Executive Officer

 

Name of Executive
Officer:
Tim
Garvin

Executive Vice
President and General Counsel 

Telephone number:
(604) 601
6692 

 

Item 9.

Date of Report

 

October
21, 2021