EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 

 Exhibit
99.1

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

 August
9, 2021

 

Eldorado Gold Announces the Sale of Tocantinzinho

to G Mining Ventures

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado” or “the
Company”) is pleased to announce that it has entered into a
definitive agreement (the “Agreement”) with G Mining
Ventures Corp. (“GMIN”) to divest its Tocantinzinho
Project (“TZ”) located in Brazil (the
“Transaction”).

 

Under
the terms of the Agreement, Eldorado will receive:

 

●
Minimum upfront
consideration of US$50 million, comprised of a minimum US$20
million in cash and 19.9% of GMIN shares upon closing of the
Transaction.

 

●
Deferred
consideration of US$60 million in cash to be paid subject to TZ
commencing commercial production, payable on the first anniversary
of commercial production (“Deferred
Consideration”).

 

●
GMIN has the option
to defer 50% of the Deferred Consideration at a cost of US$5
million, in which case US$30 million is payable upon the first
anniversary of the commencement of commercial production and US$35
million is payable upon the second anniversary of the commencement
of commercial production.

 

●
Upon closing of the
Transaction, Eldorado and GMIN will enter into an investor rights
agreement (“Investor Rights Agreement”), which will
grant Eldorado certain rights for so long as it maintains 10%
ownership of GMIN common shares on an undiluted basis. The Investor
Rights Agreement will include a customary lockup period until the
earlier of (i) two years, and (ii) GMIN making a positive
construction decision on TZ, the right for Eldorado to participate
in future equity offerings by GMIN in order to maintain the greater
of 19.9% of GMIN’s share capital and Eldorado’s pro
rata ownership interest prior to the offering, and additional
customary rights and restrictions for a transaction of this
nature.

 

“This
transaction provides Eldorado with immediate value for TZ, while
also retaining meaningful exposure to future value creation through
our equity stake in GMIN,” said George Burns,
Eldorado’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “TZ
will be a cornerstone asset for GMIN, a team with a strong track
record of building mines on time and on budget. Together with our
local Brazilian team, we believe they are the right group to
responsibly advance the asset and we look forward to following and
supporting their success. On behalf of the management team and
Company, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Lincoln
Silva and his team in Brazil for all their contributions, hard work
and dedication to the Company. We wish them all the best moving
forward.”

 

The
Transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including
required regulatory approvals. The Transaction is expected to close
in the fourth quarter of 2021. Trinity Advisors Corporation acted
as financial advisors to Eldorado, and Fasken acted as
Eldorado’s legal counsel.

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:
ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

 

 

 

Contact
 

Investor Relations
 

Lisa
Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757
2237 or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: completion of the Transaction, including timing
thereof; Receipt of any cash and GMIN shares payable to Eldorado on
closing of the Transaction, including the amount of such cash and
GMIN shares; TZ achieving commercial production and receipt of any
Deferred Consideration, ability to GMIN to advance TZ and to build
a mine, including cost and timing thereof, and ability to meet the
conditions to completing the Transaction, including receipt of
require regulatory approvals. . Forward-looking statements and
forward-looking information by their nature are based on
assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, market
uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about: our
ability to completion the Transaction, and the timing thereof,
ability to satisfy all conditions of closing, including receipt of
all required regulatory approvals, the ability of GMIN to advance
TZ, including to achieve commercial production, and the timing
thereof; the amount of the cash and GMIN shares comprising the
consideration paid at the closing of the Transaction; and the price
of the GMIN shares. how the world-wide economic and social impact
of COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; timing and cost of construction and exploration; the
future price of gold and other commodities; the global concentrate
market; exchange rates; anticipated costs, expenses and working
capital requirements; the impact of acquisitions, dispositions,
suspensions or delays on our business; and the ability to achieve
our goals. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this
release.

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: inability to
complete the transaction, including the inability to meet the
conditions to closing the Transaction, including receipt of
required regulatory approvals, and the timing thereof; inability of
GMIN to advance TZ to commercial production; inability of GMIN to
pay the Deferred Consideration; global outbreaks of infectious
diseases, including COVID-19; timing and cost of construction, and
the associated benefits; recoveries of gold and other metals;
geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), risks related
to mineral tenure and permits; gold and other commodity price
volatility; information technology systems risks; continued
softening of the global concentrate market; risks regarding
potential and pending litigation and arbitration proceedings
relating to our business, properties and operations; expected
impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of the
reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; financing risks; foreign country
operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks
and liabilities including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production;
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and
recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative
nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility and
the price of our common shares; competition; loss of key employees;
and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well as
those risk factors discussed in the sections titled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our
business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the
detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion
is incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

 

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.