EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Blueprint

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO 

 April
2, 2019

 
Eldorado
Gold Announces Resumption of Crushing and Stacking at
Kisladag

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation, (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) is pleased to announce that as of April
1, 2019, mining, crushing and placing of ore on the Kisladag heap
leach pad has resumed. This follows the Company’s
announcement on January 30,
2019 that it would resume full operations at Kisladag.
Further testwork is underway to determine the effects of a 250 day
leach cycles on deeper material, the results of which are expected
to be available in late 2019 or early 2020.

 

Eldorado’s
President and Chief Executive Officer, George Burns, stated:
“My thanks to Matt Badylak, Kisladag General Manager, and the
team at site, as resumption of operations has started on schedule.
We are now prepared to deliver on our 2019 Kisladag guidance of
145,000-165,000 ounces at a cash cost of $570-620 per ounce,
increasing in 2020 to 240,000-260,000 ounces.”

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, Serbia,
and Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto
Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).

 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

+1 604
687 4018 or 1 888 353 8166 peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

+1 604
687 4018 or 1 888 353 8166 louiseb@eldoradogold.com

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: resumption of crushing and stacking at Kisladag, our
guidance and outlook, including expected production at Kisladag;
plans and goals, including our proposed testing plan at Kisladag
and operating plans and priorities and related
timelines.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, market uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; the
global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated costs and
expenses; production, mineral reserves and resources and
metallurgical recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions,
suspensions or delays on our business and the ability to achieve
our goals. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this
release.

 

 

 

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: recoveries of gold and other metals; geopolitical and
economic climate (global and local), risks related to mineral
tenure and permits; gold and other commodity price volatility;
risks regarding potential and pending litigation and arbitration
proceedings relating to the Company’s, business, properties
and operations; expected impact on reserves and the carrying value;
the updating of the reserve and resource models and life of mine
plans; mining operational and development risk; financing risks,
foreign country operational risks; risks of sovereign investment;
regulatory risks and liabilities including, environmental
regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies between actual
and estimated production, mineral reserves and resources and
metallurgical testing and recoveries; additional funding
requirements; currency fluctuations; community and non-governmental
organization actions; speculative nature of gold exploration;
dilution; share price volatility; competition; loss of key
employees; and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as
well as those risk factors discussed in the sections titled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our
business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the
detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form
filed on SEDAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.

 

Except as otherwise noted, scientific and technical information
contained in this press release was reviewed and approved by Paul
Skayman, FAusIMM, Chief Operating Officer for Eldorado Gold
Corporation, and a "qualified person" under NI 43-101.