EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Blueprint

 Exhibit
99.1

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO

August 6, 2019

 

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Filing of Preliminary Base Shelf
Prospectus

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or the
“Company”) announces that it has filed a preliminary
short form base shelf prospectus with the securities regulatory
authorities in each of the provinces of Canada. The Company has
also filed a corresponding shelf registration statement on Form
F-10 with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”) under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and the Multijurisdictional Disclosure System established
between Canada and the United States.

 

The
prospectus will allow Eldorado to offer up to US$750 million of
common shares, debt securities, convertible securities, warrants,
rights, subscription receipts, units or any combination thereof,
from time to time over the 25-month period after Canadian
securities regulatory authorities have issued a receipt for the
final prospectus.

 

The
shelf registration statement filed today with the SEC has not yet
become effective. Until the registration statement becomes
effective, no securities may be sold nor may offers to buy be
accepted. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell
or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale
of these securities in any jurisdiction in which an offer,
solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or
qualifications under the securities laws of any such
jurisdiction.

 

A copy
of the prospectus can be found on SEDAR at www.sedar.com,
and a copy of the shelf registration statement can be found on
EDGAR at www.sec.gov,
each under the Company’s profile.
 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, Serbia,
and Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock
Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).
 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations
 

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018
or 1.888.353.8166 peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media
 

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.687.4018
or 1.888.353.8166 louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to the filing of the Prospectus and shelf registration
statement and drawing on capital. Forward-looking statements and
forward-looking information by their nature are based on
assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, market
uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.
 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; the
global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated costs and
expenses; production, mineral reserves and resources and
metallurgical recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions,
suspensions or delays on our business and the ability to achieve
our goals. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this release.
Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, additional
funding requirements; currency fluctuations; dilution; share price
volatility; as well as those risk factors discussed in the sections
titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors
in our business" in the Company's Prospectus, most recent Annual
Information Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to
carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our most recent
Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name,
which discussion is incorporated by reference in this release, for
a fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect
the Company’s business and operations.
 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.