EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

January 21, 2021

 

 

Eldorado Gold and QMX Announce Friendly Acquisition

of QMX by Eldorado

 

Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada, January 21, 2021 – ELDORADO GOLD
CORPORATION (TSX: ELD; NYSE: EGO) (“Eldorado”) and QMX
GOLD CORPORATION (TSX-V: QMX) (“QMX”) are pleased to
announce that they have entered into a definitive arrangement
agreement (the “Agreement”) pursuant to which Eldorado
will acquire all of the outstanding shares of QMX (not already
owned by Eldorado) for total consideration of approximately C$132
million on a 100% and fully diluted basis or C$0.30 per QMX share
(the “Arrangement”). Eldorado currently owns 68,125,000
shares of QMX, or approximately 17% of QMX shares outstanding,
which it purchased at C$0.06 per share in a private placement on
December 30, 2019.

 

Transaction Terms

 

Under
the terms of the Arrangement, each holder of QMX shares will
receive, for each QMX share held, (i) C$0.075 in cash and (ii)
0.01523 of an Eldorado common share (the “Arrangement
Consideration”), for total consideration of C$0.30 per QMX
share (based on Eldorado’s closing price on January 20,
2021). The Arrangement Consideration represents a 39.5% premium to
the closing price of QMX shares on the TSX Venture Exchange (the
“TSX-V”) on January 20, 2021.

 

Following
the completion of the Arrangement, QMX shareholders will own
approximately 2.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of
Eldorado.

 

Strategic Rationale for Eldorado

 

●
Significantly
increases Eldorado’s footprint and landholdings in the
Abitibi Greenstone Belt by approximately 550%, consistent with its
strategy to invest in world-class mining jurisdictions where it
currently operates.

 

●
Adds a pipeline of
additional organic opportunities proximal to Lamaque, which can be
exploited by leveraging existing infrastructure and the
Eldorado’s strong operational, exploration, and stakeholder
expertise.

 

●
Enhances
Eldorado’s overall risk profile through the addition of
future growth prospects in one of the top mining jurisdictions in
the world.

 

●
Underscores
Eldorado’s long-term commitment to Quebec and Canada as a
core jurisdiction.

 

“This
transaction expands our position in the Abitibi camp and is
consistent with our strategy of pursuing growth at Lamaque in
Quebec, a high-quality jurisdiction,” said George Burns,
Eldorado’s President and Chief Executive Officer.
“QMX’s highly prospective land package is ideally
located immediately adjacent to our current Lamaque operation and
associated exploration projects in the heart of the Val d’Or
gold district. Eldorado’s growing financial flexibility will
enable us to continue to identify and secure opportunities for
prudent growth within our operating footprint.”

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 1: Regional Plan Map

 

 

Benefits to QMX Shareholders

 

●
Attractive premium
of 39.5% to the closing price of QMX shares on the TSX-V on January
20, 2021.

 

●
Ongoing exposure to
QMX’s land package and subsequent value creation
opportunities through a broader consolidated operating camp in the
Eastern Abitibi.

 

●
Exposure to
Eldorado’s portfolio of high-quality mines and development
projects.

 

●
Access to
Eldorado’s technical, project development and operating
capabilities, as well as financial resources.

 

●
Potential for value
accretion through a re-valuation in Eldorado’s share price as
Eldorado continues to deliver and de-risk its combined asset
portfolio.

 

Brad
Humphrey, President and Chief Executive Officer of QMX, commented:
“In 2016, we set to re-focus QMX into a premier exploration
company to maximize the value of our Val d’Or property. I am
proud to say that this transaction is a testament to all the hard
work and effort that the QMX team has put in over the years, and in
particular, a testament to the success and strength of the QMX
exploration team in Val d’Or. In addition, QMX could not have
achieved its success to date without a number of supportive
stakeholders.”

 

“After
evaluating the terms of the transaction, management and the board
of directors of QMX view this transaction as beneficial for all
shareholders as it provides immediate value for their support and
the opportunity to continue to benefit as part of an established
and well financed gold producer.”
 

 

 

 

Transaction Conditions & Timing

 

QMX
intends to call a meeting of shareholders to be held in March 2021 to seek shareholder
approval for the Arrangement (the “Meeting”).
The transaction will be effected by way of a court-approved plan of
arrangement under Section 182 of the Business Corporations Act (Ontario) and
will require:
 

●
approval of at
least 66 2/3% of the votes cast by QMX shareholders
and

●
a simple majority
of the votes cast by QMX shareholders, excluding votes from certain
shareholders, including Eldorado, as required under Multilateral
Instrument 61-101.

 

The
completion of the transaction is also subject to the receipt of
court, stock exchange and any other required regulatory approvals,
and is subject to certain customary closing conditions for
transactions of this nature. The Arrangement does not require the
approval of the shareholders of Eldorado.

 

The
Agreement provides for, among other things, non-solicitation
covenants, with “fiduciary out” provisions that allow
QMX to consider and accept a superior proposal, subject to a
“right to match period” in favour of Eldorado. The
Agreement also provides for a termination fee of C$6.6 million to
be paid by QMX to Eldorado if the Agreement is terminated in
certain specified circumstances.

 

The
directors and senior officers of QMX, holding in aggregate over 1%
of the issued and outstanding common shares of QMX, have entered
into voting support agreements with Eldorado, pursuant to which
they have agreed to vote their shares in favour of the transaction.
Together with shares already owned or held by Eldorado,
approximately 18% of QMX’s issued and outstanding shares
would be voted in support of the Arrangement.

 

The
companies are working towards closing the transaction in late March
/ early April 2021.

 

Board Approval and Recommendation

 

The special committee of independent directors of QMX (the
“Special Committee”) has received an opinion from
Canaccord Genuity Corp. that, based upon and subject to the
limitations, assumptions and qualifications of and other matters
considered in connection with the preparation of such opinion, the
consideration to be received by QMX shareholders (other than
Eldorado) pursuant to the Arrangement is fair, from a financial
point of view, to the QMX shareholders (other than Eldorado) (the
“Fairness Opinion”).

 

Following its review and in consideration of, amongst other things,
the Fairness Opinion, the Special Committee has unanimously
recommended that the board of directors of QMX approve the
Arrangement. The QMX board, following the receipt and review of
recommendations from the Special Committee, has approved the
Agreement and the Arrangement and has determined that the
Arrangement is fair to shareholders of QMX (other than Eldorado)
and is in the best interests of QMX, and recommends to shareholders
that they vote in favour of the Arrangement.

 

The
Agreement has also been unanimously approved by the board of
directors of Eldorado.
 

Warrants and Options

 

Pursuant
to the Arrangement, each QMX stock option (each, a “QMX
Option”) outstanding immediately prior to the effective time
of the Arrangement (the “Effective Time”) shall
automatically vest and be immediately cancelled in exchange for a
cash payment equal to the excess, if any, of: (i) the product of
the number of QMX shares underlying such QMX Options and C$0.30;
over (ii) the applicable aggregate exercise price of such QMX
Options. All QMX warrants (each, a “QMX Warrant”)
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will remain
outstanding and, following the Effective Time, shall entitle the
holder thereof to receive, upon the subsequent exercise of such
holder's QMX Warrant in accordance with its terms, in lieu of each
QMX share to which such holder was theretofore entitled upon such
exercise but for the same aggregate consideration payable therefor,
the Arrangement Consideration.

 

Advisors and Counsel

 

Eldorado
has engaged Trinity Advisors Corporation as its financial advisor
and Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP as its legal advisor in
connection with the transaction.

 

Canaccord
Genuity Corp. is acting as financial advisor to the QMX Special
Committee and Wildeboer Dellelce LLP is acting as legal advisor to
QMX and the Special Committee in connection with the
transaction.

 

Additional Information

 

Full details of the Arrangement are set out in the Agreement, which
will be filed by QMX under its profile on SEDAR at
www.sedar.com. In addition, further information regarding the
Arrangement will be contained in a management information circular
to be prepared in connection with the Meeting and filed on
www.sedar.com at the time that it is mailed to shareholders. All
shareholders are urged to read the management information circular
once it becomes available as it will contain additional important
information concerning the Arrangement.
 

 

 

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange
(TSX: ELD) and the New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).
 

About QMX Gold
 

QMX
Gold Corporation is a Canadian based resource company traded on the
TSX Venture Exchange under the symbol “QMX”. QMX is
systematically exploring its extensive property position in the Val
d’Or mining camp in the Abitibi District of Quebec. QMX is
currently drilling in the Val d’Or East portion of its land
package focused on the Bonnefond Deposit and in the Bourlamaque
Batholith. In addition to its extensive land package QMX owns the
strategically located Aurbel gold mill and tailings
facility.
 

Contacts
 

Eldorado Gold Corporation
 

Investor Relations

Jeff
Wilhoit, Interim Head of Investor Relations

604.376.1548
or 1.888.353.8166 jeff.wilhoit@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.616.2296
or 1.888.363.8166 louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com
 

QMX Gold Corporation

 

Brad Humphrey

Sandy Noyes

Louis
Baribeau

President and CEO

Investor Relations & Communications

Public
Relations

 

snoyes@qmxgold.ca

Tel:
(514) 667-2304

Toll free: +1 877-717-3027

Email: info@qmxgold.ca

Website: www.qmxgold.ca

 

Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the information contained
in this news release constitutes ‘forward-looking
statements’ within the meaning of securities laws. Such
forward-looking statements, including but not limited to
statements relating to: the transaction and the proposed
Arrangement as proposed to be effected pursuant to the Agreement;
the ability of the parties to satisfy the conditions to closing of
the Arrangement; the mailing of the management information circular
in connection with the Meeting and anticipated timing thereof; and
the anticipated timing of the completion of the Arrangement,
involve risks, uncertainties and other
factors which may cause the actual results to be materially
different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Such factors include, among others, obtaining required
shareholder and regulatory approvals, exercise of any termination
rights under the Agreement, meeting other conditions in the
Agreement, material adverse effects on the business, properties and
assets of QMX, and whether any superior proposal will be made.
Although each of QMX and Eldorado has attempted to identify
important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in forward-looking statements,
there may be other factors that cause results not to be as
anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that
such statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and
future events could differ materially from those anticipated in
such statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue
reliance on forward-looking statements. Neither QMX nor Eldorado
undertakes to update any forward-looking statements, except in
accordance with applicable securities laws.

 

The forward-looking statements in this press release involve known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause
QMX’s actual results, performance and achievements to be
materially different from the results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied therein. Neither TSX nor its Regulation
Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the
TSX) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this
press release

 

Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider
(as that term is defined in policies of the TSX Venture Exchange)
accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this
release.

 

None of the securities to be issued pursuant to the transaction
have been or will be registered under the United States Securities
Act of 1933, as amended (the “U.S. Securities Act”), or
any state securities laws, and any securities issuable in the
transaction are anticipated to be issued in reliance upon available
exemptions from such registration requirements pursuant to Section
3(a)(10) of the U.S. Securities Act and applicable exemptions under
state securities laws. This press release does not constitute an
offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities.