EX-99.1
2
newsrelease.htm
Q3 2017 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESULTS RELEASE DATE AND CONFERENCE CALL

 JA Filed by Filing Services Canada Inc. 403-717-3898

 

 

 
 

 NEWS
 RELEASE
 
 

 TSX:
 ELD NYSE: EGO
 October 23, 2017

 

Eldorado
Gold Provides an Update on Kisladag Operations

 

VANCOUVER
- BC
– Eldorado Gold (“Eldorado” or the “Company”) today
provides an update on its 100% owned Kisladag gold mine in Turkey. Kisladag is a low-grade, bulk-tonnage, open pit operation that
uses heap leach for gold recovery.

 

On June 27, 2017, the Company reported that,
while placement of estimated recoverable gold on the leach pad proceeded as planned, the gold solution grade and consequently gold
recovery from the leach pad had lagged internal expectations. Initial laboratory and in situ tests, where solution chemistry was
adjusted, indicated normal recovery rates were still expected. The Company also believed that more time for solution to flow through
the current stack height of the leach pad (approximately 80 meters at the highest point) was required.

 

During the third quarter, a significant amount
of laboratory test work was undertaken, primarily focused on the zone of mineralization located around the base of the open pit
where mining is currently underway. Monthly composite samples from material recently placed on the pad, even with adjusted solution
chemistry, have indicated lower gold recoveries. Final recoveries in the low 40% range are now anticipated for this material. This
will result in a reduction in the recoverable leach pad inventory by approximately 40,000 ounces of gold.

 

In light of the lower recoveries, the Company
is revising its 2017 guidance for Kisladag to 170,000 to 180,000 ounces at cash costs of $500 to $550 per ounce. Guidance for 2018
and beyond is currently under review.

 

Further metallurgical test work on heap leaching
is ongoing to determine the extent of the materiality of the impact on gold resources and reserves, and possible implications for
the carrying value of the mine.

 

In parallel with ongoing laboratory heap leach
test work, the Company is investigating alternative treatment methods for this material, which includes studies on finer particle
breakage, either through milling or high pressure grinding roll (HPGR) crushers. The Company has previously contemplated
construction of a mill at Kisladag and historic and ongoing test work using bottle rolls and other metallurgical tests indicates
that milling should result in consistently higher recoveries compared to heap leaching throughout the orebody; the potential benefits
from HPGR requires further studies and test work.

 

More information will be available when the
Company updates the resources and reserves model and the life of mine plan in light of these studies.

 

About
Eldorado Gold

 

Eldorado is a leading intermediate gold
producer with mining, development and exploration operations in Turkey, Greece, Canada, Romania, Serbia and Brazil. The Company’s
success to date is based on a highly skilled and dedicated workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with the communities where it operates. Eldorado’s common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).

 
 
 

Forward Looking Statement

 

Certain of the statements made and information
provided in this press release are forward-looking statements or information within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, but not always, forward-looking statements and forward-looking
information can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects”, “is expected", "budget",
"continue"", "projected", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "projected",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and
phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results “to be”, "may", "could", "would",
"might" or "will" be taken, occur or be achieved. Such forward-looking statements or information include,
but are not limited to, statements or information with respect to recoveries of gold at Kisladag on the leach pad or under alternative
treatment methods, results of test work, the Company’s revised guidance for 2017, 2018 and beyond, expected impact on reserves
and the carrying value of Kisladag and the updating of the resources and reserves model and life of mine plan..

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking
information by their nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which
may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance
or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or information. 

 

We have made certain assumptions about the
forward-looking statements and information, including assumptions about the geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate
that we operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses; production,
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on
our business and the ability to achieve our goals. 

 

Even though our management believes that
the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are
beyond our control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks,
uncertainties or other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially
from those described in forward-looking statements or information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include,
among others, the following: geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), risks related to mineral tenure and permits;
gold and other metal price volatility; mining operational and development risk; foreign country operational risks; risks of sovereign
investment; regulatory environment and restrictions, including environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies
between actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and recoveries; risks related
to impact of the sale of our Chinese assets on the Company's operations; risks related to the acquisition of Integra Gold Corporation; additional
funding requirements; currency fluctuations; litigation and arbitration risks; community and non-governmental organization actions;
speculative nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility; competition; loss of key employees; and defective title
to mineral claims or property, as well as those factors discussed in the sections entitled "Forward-Looking Statements"
and "Risk factors in our business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form and Form 40-F. The reader
is directed to carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR under our
Company name, for a fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the Company's business and operations.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
statements or information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated
in such statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements or information contained
herein. Except as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking statements and information continually as conditions
change and you are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business contained in the Company's reports filed with the
securities regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.

 

Cautionary Note to US Investors Concerning
Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources

The terms “mineral resource”,
“measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource”, “inferred mineral resource” used
herein are Canadian mining terms used in accordance with National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects (“NI 43-101”) under the guidelines set out in the Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and Petroleum
(the “CIM”) Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, adopted by the CIM Council, as may be amended from
time to time. These definitions differ from the definitions in the United States Securities & Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
Industry Guide 7. In the United States, a mineral reserve is defined as a part of a mineral deposit which could be economically
and legally extracted or produced at the time the mineral reserve determination is made.

 

While the terms “mineral resource”,
“measured mineral resource,” “indicated mineral resource”, and “inferred mineral resource”
are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, they are not defined terms under standards in the United States and normally
are not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. As such, information contained herein concerning
descriptions of mineralization and resources under Canadian standards may not be comparable to similar information made public
by U.S. companies in SEC filings. 

 

Mineral resources which are not mineral
reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. With respect to “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred
mineral resource”, there is a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and a great uncertainty as to their economic
and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of a “measured mineral resource”, “indicated
mineral resource” or “inferred mineral resource” will ever be upgraded to a higher category. 

 

Accordingly, information herein containing
descriptions of our mineral deposits may not be comparable to similar information made public by US companies subject to the reporting
and disclosure requirements under US federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.

 

Contacts
- Investor Relations

Telephone: 604.687.4018
or 1.888.363.8166 or kristam@eldoradogold.com