EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Blueprint

 Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS
RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

May
13, 2019

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Execution of Senior Secured Credit
Facility

 

Vancouver,
British Columbia – Eldorado Gold Corporation
(“Eldorado,” the “Company” or
“We”) is pleased to announce that, further to the
Company’s press release of earlier today entitled
“Eldorado Gold Announces New Senior Secured Credit
Facility”, the Company and its syndicate of lenders have now
fully executed a US$450 million amended and restated senior secured
credit agreement in respect of a US$450 million Senior Secured
Credit Facility (the “Facility”). The Facility will
replace the Company's existing revolving credit facility
established by HSBC Bank Canada and certain lenders and will become
effective upon completion of customary conditions. All terms
of the Facility remain as outlined in the Company’s prior
press release, and completion of conditions precedent is expected
on or prior to the completion of the Company’s senior secured
second-lien notes announced earlier today.

 

Proceeds
from the term loan under the Facility and the Company’s
secured second-lien notes offering, together with other proceeds,
will be used to redeem the Company’s existing 6.125% Senior
Notes due December 2020. With the expected increase in free cash
flow from Kisladag from the resumption of heap leaching and Lamaque
now in commercial production, the Company expects to use such cash
flow in part to repay the Term Loan in full.

 

About
Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado is a gold
and base metals producer with mining, development and exploration
operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, Serbia, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto
Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).

 

Contacts
 

Investor
Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018 or
1.888.353.8166 peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.687.4018 or
1.888.353.8166 louiseb@eldoradogold.com

 

 

 

 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

 

This news release contains forward looking statements and forward
looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian and
U.S. securities laws. Often, but not always, forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information can be identified by the
use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
"scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or
"believes" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and
phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results
"may", "could", "would", "might" or "will" be taken, occur or be
achieved. Forward-looking statements or information herein include,
but are not limited to the completion of the transactions in
connection with the new Senior Secured Credit Facility and note
offering.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information and even though our
management believes that the assumptions made and the expectations
represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there
can be no assurance that the forward-looking statement or
information will prove to be accurate. Furthermore, should one or
more of the risks, uncertainties or other factors materialize, or
should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may
vary materially from those described in forward-looking statements
or information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors
include, among others, the following: the need to negotiate and
execute a [credit agreement] and related documents; the need for
continued cooperation of the lenders; gold price volatility; the
need to obtain any required consents and related documents,
discrepancies between actual and estimated production, mineral
reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries; mining
operational and development risk; litigation risks; regulatory
restrictions, including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; risks of sovereign investment; currency fluctuations;
speculative nature of gold exploration; global economic climate;
dilution; share price volatility; competition; loss of key
employees; additional funding requirements; and defective title to
mineral claims or property, as well as those factors discussed in
the sections entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” and
“Risk Factors” in the Company's Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F dated March 29, 2019.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.