EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO

June 8, 2020

 

Eldorado Gold to Begin Construction of the Decline at Lamaque and
Provides an Update on Greece

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) announces that it is commencing
construction of a three kilometre decline, or tunnel (shown in
Figures 1 and 2 below), from the Sigma mill to the 405 metre level
of the Triangle mine. The Company is also providing an update on
several positive developments in Greece.

 

“We are pleased to begin construction of the decline
at Lamaque this summer. This is a project that we have been
advancing for nearly a year and is another step towards further
production growth and continued value creation at Lamaque. We would
like to thank the government of Quebec and all our local
stakeholders for their continued support for this project and our
Lamaque operations,” said George Burns President and
CEO.

 

Lamaque Decline Project

 

The
fully permitted decline project represents a relatively modest
investment that is expected to provide multiple near-term and
long-term benefits as the
Company continues to grow production at Lamaque. Detailed
engineering and site preparations for the decline will commence
this month and surface construction on the portal will begin in Q3
2020. The decline is expected to be completed by H1 2022 at an
estimated cost of US$24 million. Additionally, the Company is
evaluating the possible addition of an underground crushing and
conveying system as well as a potential mill expansion. An update
outlining the path forward at Lamaque is expected in Q4
2020.

 

Benefits
to the decline include:

 

●
Eliminating surface
re-handling and haulage (approximately 26 km round trip) of the ore
from the Triangle mine to the Sigma mill, reducing carbon
emissions, costs, and removing haulage traffic from the public road
network,

●
Reducing the energy
requirements for mine ventilation,

●
Supplying a means
of secondary egress and ventilation to the Triangle mine,
increasing safety underground,

●
Providing
underground access for lower cost exploration in the prospective
area between the Triangle mine and the historic Sigma and Lamaque
mines – including further drilling of the Plug 4 and Parallel
deposit and the Ormaque zone, and

●
Facilitating
increased future production from the Triangle mine (contingent on
continued reserve expansion) and allowing for mining of the
Parallel deposit.

 

Greek Update

 

The
Company provides an update on several recent developments in Greece
including:

 

●
Eldorado completed
a purchase of the 5% of Hellas Gold shares that were owned by
Ellaktor, the Company is now the sole shareholder in Hellas
Gold,

●
New Environmental
Law 4685/2020 was passed by the Greek Parliament in May which
modernizes Greek legislation to EU standards, and

●
Relocation of
certain archeological items from Skouries to commence per the local
archeological chamber’s instructions.

 

 
1

 

 

 

Figure
1: Section view of proposed decline from the Sigma mill to the
Triangle mine

 

 

 

Figure
2: Plan view of proposed decline from the Sigma mill to the
Triangle mine

 

 

 
2

 

 

 
 

About Eldorado Gold
 
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:
ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or
information contained in this release include, but are not limited
to, statements or information with respect to: the
construction of the decline at Lamaque, and the associated
benefits, including potential further production growth and
continued value creation at Lamaque, statements with respect to
moving the Company’s Greek projects forward, as well as our
planned capital and exploration expenditures; our expectation as to
our future financial and operating performance, gold price outlook
and the global concentrate market; and our strategy, plans and
goals, including our proposed exploration, development,
construction, permitting and operating plans and priorities and
related timelines and schedules.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about how the
world-wide economic and social impact of COVID-19 is managed and
the duration and extent of the COVID 19 pandemic, the tonnage of
ore to be mined and processed; ore grades and recoveries; mineral
reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries, the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities;
exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses; and actual
production. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this
release.

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: the duration and effects of COVID-19, and any other
pandemics on our operations and workforce, and the effects on
global economies and society; geopolitical and economic climate
(global and local), mineral tenure and permits; gold and other
commodity price volatility; recoveries of gold and other metals;
results of test work; revised guidance; mining operational and
development risk; discrepancies between actual and estimated
production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical
testing and recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency
fluctuations; speculative nature of gold exploration; competition;
loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral claims or
properties, as well as those risk factors discussed in the sections
titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors
in our business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information
Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review
the detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information
Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.

 

Contact
 

Investor Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018
or 1.888.353.8166

peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications and Government
Relations

604.601.6679
or 1.888.363.8166

louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com

 
3