EX-99.1
2
tm264846d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

Exhibit 99.1

ELDORADO GOLD
CODE OF ETHICS
AND BUSINESS
CONDUCTCover image : Lamaque, Quebec.Table of Contents
2 Message from CEO George Burns
3 Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
3 Who Does This Code Apply To?
3 Who Oversees This Code?
3 Questions?
3 What Next?
4 We Comply with All Laws and Regulations
5 We Act with Honesty and Integrity
5 What Are Some Examples of Bribery?
5 What Can We Do to Protect Ourselves from Allegations of
Bribery?
5 What about Gifts?
5 What about Charitable Donations?
6 Are Political Donations Allowed?
6 More Information
7 We Declare All Conflicts of Interest
7 What Are Some Examples of Conflicts of Interest?
7 What Should I Do If I Think There Is a Conflict of Interest?
8 We Protect Confidential Information
8 What Are the Guidelines around Confidential Information?
8 What Is Insider Trading?
8 How Should I Respond to Media or Analyst Requests for
Information?
9 We Protect Our Corporate Assets
10 We Provide Accurate, Timely and Understandable Disclosure
10 How Should I Respond to an Audit Request?
11 We Have a Safe, Healthy and Respectful Work Environment
11 What about Email, the Internet and Social Media?
11 Our Managers Lead by Example
11 More Information
12 We Are Committed to Being a Responsible Global
Corporate Citizen
12 Environmental, Social and Governance
12 Our Communities
13 We Report Violations of This Code
13 Asking a Question about the Code
13 How to Report a Suspected Code Violation
13 What Happens after You File a Report
13 Non-Retaliation Policy
13 Consequences of a Violation
15 Reporting Contacts
16 Onboarding Compliance Certificate
17 Annual Compliance Certificate
ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 1 2 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
Message from CEO George Burns
We value integrity – which means being honest and doing the right thing. This core value is central to the way we
do business. We are all accountable for making ethically grounded decisions in our day-to-day work, including in
how we treat one another. You can expect this of me, just as I expect it of you.
Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (the “Code”), along with
our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”), clarify what is
acceptable and what is not. Whenever something comes in conflict
with our value of integrity, we expect people to speak up. This ties
to another core value at Eldorado – courage. Ethics is more than a
set of rules. It’s about communicating candidly and doing the right
thing, even when it feels risky. Ethical behaviour includes avoiding
actual or apparent conflicts of interest between your personal and
professional relationships – and speaking up if you see this conflict
in others.
I believe strongly that the most sustainable companies are
fundamentally ethical companies. As an ethical employer, we are
committed to providing a safe and respectful work environment for
all our people. We have zero tolerance for discrimination, harassment
or abuse of any kind in the workplace, as further outlined in our
Respectful Workplace Policy. By reading and following the Code in
our daily interactions, each one of us is contributing to Eldorado’s
reputation as an ethical employer and community partner wherever
we operate around the world.
Take the time to review the Code and reflect on your own behaviours
and actions as an ethical individual. If you have any questions
about the Code, seek advice from the individuals identified within
it. If you become aware of any situations or conditions you believe
may violate the Code, speak up. Tell your leader, record it through
Eldorado’s Whistleblower Reporting Line, or report via the means
identified in this Code. You can be confident that you will not face
retaliation of any kind for reports made in good faith.
We each play an essential role in upholding a culture of integrity
across Eldorado.
(Signed)
George Burns
Chief Executive Officer
VALUES
Courage
We embrace the unknown
and face challenges head on
Collaboration
We succeed together
Drive
We persevere through adversity,
remaining committed to delivering
on our promises
Integrity
We are honest and
do the right thing
Agility
We continuously assess, adapt
and navigate to find solutionsELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 3
Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
Eldorado’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to you and anyone doing work for Eldorado, our subsidiar-ies and our affiliates (collectively referred to as “Eldorado”). It describes our expectations for acting ethically in all
situations and making choices that are in line with the highest standards of integrity and business conduct.
The expectations described in this Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the other applicable policies referred
to in the Code (collectively, the “Code”), including your responsibility for reporting suspected violations, are
subject to all applicable laws and regulations under which Eldorado operates. If this Code is in conflict with any
applicable law, the law takes priority.
WHO DOES THIS CODE APPLY TO?
This Code applies to all Eldorado employees, directors and officers.
It also applies to anyone who conducts business on behalf of
Eldorado, such as our contractors, consultants and suppliers. In this
Code, anyone to whom the Code applies is sometimes referred to as
 “you”.
We provide a copy of the Code to everyone who works for or with
Eldorado. Each year, you must read the Code. Annually, directors,
officers, country managers who are responsible for overseeing
employees in foreign jurisdictions where we operate and other key
decision makers within Eldorado must sign a personal statement
(called an Annual Compliance Certificate) saying that such individuals
understand the Code and will follow it.
In some circumstances, the Code may be explained to you by your
manager or supervisor. This person will be responsible for confirming
that you have heard and understood the information in the Code.
There are additional expectations for our Board of Directors and for
our individual directors. These expectations can be found in the
Board of Directors’ Terms of Reference available on our website..
WHO OVERSEES THIS CODE?
Eldorado’s Board of Directors created the standards of business and
personal conduct described in this Code to provide clear guidelines
and expectations for all Eldorado employees and others doing work
for Eldorado. Any waiver of this Code for the benefit of a director or
executive officer may only be granted by the Board of Directors or a
designated committee of the Board. Where such a waiver constitutes
a material departure from the Code, the Company will comply with
applicable disclosure obligations under securities laws, which may
include the filing of a material change report that outlines the nature
and circumstances of the waiver.
The Chair of the Board’s Audit Committee and our Executive Vice
President and General Counsel will monitor compliance with the
Code. In this capacity, they report directly to the Audit Committee
and our Board of Directors.
QUESTIONS?
You may have questions about this Code or a particular situation you
have experienced. We encourage you to speak with your manager or
supervisor about any issues, without fear of retribution.
You can also discuss your questions or concerns about this Code,
or any other applicable business practice, with our Executive Vice
President and General Counsel or any other member of the Eldorado
Legal and Compliance team, using the contact details set out in the
Reporting Contacts section below.
If you are aware that someone is violating this Code, you must report
this misconduct. Please see the section How to report a suspected
Code violation for more information. 4 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
We Comply with All Laws and Regulations
Eldorado has operations around the world, with each operation subject to the laws and regulations of its
jurisdiction. We also comply with international standards regarding human rights, safety, workplace practices and
environmental management.
In addition to complying with this Code, you must also comply with
all laws and governmental regulations that apply to your role with
Eldorado. If you break the law, you and/or Eldorado may face criminal
or civil charges.
If at any time you are uncertain about the application or interpretation
of a law, regulation or policy, you should consult your manager or
supervisor or seek the opinion of the Eldorado Legal and Compliance
team.
Q&A
Q: Some of the policies in this Code (like those regarding anti-bribery under our ABC Policy and non-discriminatory workplace
practices) are more stringent than the laws in the country where I work. Do I need to follow the Code and other Eldorado policies or
can I just follow the law in my country?
A: In this case, you must follow this Code and other Eldorado policies. Eldorado operates to the most stringent practices outlined in
law or in the Code. This means that if the law is more stringent than what we have outlined in this Code, you must follow the law. If the
Code is more stringent than the law, you must follow the Code.ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 5
We Act with Honesty and Integrity
We act fairly and honestly with integrity and accountability in all of our business relationships. As set out in our
ABC Policy, an act of bribery or corruption – for instance, exchanging gifts or money to obtain a benefit for Eldorado
or yourself, such as a contract or a favourable government action – violates our Code and ABC Policy and may result
in civil or criminal sanctions against those involved and the company.
WHAT ARE SOME EXAMPLES OF BRIBERY?
Some examples of bribery and corruption include offering, promising,
paying or authorizing any payment or thing of value to any person,
directly or indirectly through or to a third party (e.g., a representative
of government, a labour union, a customer or supplier), for the
purpose of or in exchange for:
 • A person acting or failing to act in violation of a legal duty (e.g., a
payment by an Eldorado employee to a government inspector to
overlook a health or safety violation);
 • A person abusing or misusing their position (e.g., an Eldorado
employee receiving a secret payment from a supplier in exchange
for giving Eldorado business to that supplier);
 • Obtaining or retaining an advantage or benefit (including any
permit, license, contract or concession) for Eldorado or any of its
representatives, suppliers or agents (e.g., making a payment to a
governmental official to issue an environmental permit); or
 • Inducing a public official to perform a non-discretionary activity more
quickly or at all (e.g., giving a gift to a tax inspector to process an
Eldorado tax return).
The definitions of “public official” and “bribery” are very broad. If
you have any questions about these definitions or the scope of the
Code, consult with Eldorado’s Executive Vice-President and General
Counsel.
WHAT CAN WE DO TO PROTECT OURSELVES FROM ALLEGATIONS OF
BRIBERY?
To uphold Eldorado’s commitment to integrity and honesty, you
should always:
 • Limit marketing and client entertainment expenditures to those that
are necessary, prudent, job-related and consistent with our ABC
Policy and the related Gifts and Entertainment Procedures.
 • Consult with the Company’s Executive Vice President and General
Counsel before offering or providing any gift, entertainment or
other benefit to a public official.
 • Use clear and precise communication in our contracts, marketing,
disclosure documents and other public statements.
 • Ensure full and accurate disclosure when reporting all financial
information, which includes completion of the Gifts and
Entertainment Register.
WHAT ABOUT GIFTS?
 • You are never allowed to give or receive a cash gift.
 • Receiving non-cash gifts, or giving them to customers, suppliers
and others, is allowed in limited circumstances as described in
the ABC Policy and in compliance with our Gift and Entertainment
Procedures.
 • You are not allowed to offer or receive a gift, gratuity or
entertainment that might, or might be perceived to, unfairly
influence a business relationship.
 • Any gift offered or received should be reasonable in both
frequency and value given the circumstances. A gift that may be
perceived as an attempt to create an obligation or enticement for
the recipient is inappropriate.
 • Business entertainment activities should also be reasonable in
frequency and value, and be provided without expecting to receive
a direct or indirect advantage or benefit of any kind, whether
business or personal.
 • Gifts must be properly documented and recorded in our financial
records.
 • You should not offer or give a gift, entertainment or other benefit
if you think that doing so would contravene the ABC Policy or any
law without first consulting Eldorado’s Executive Vice President and
General Counsel.
 • You should consult the Gifts and Entertainment Procedures for
guidance on approvals and on specific limits and processes.
WHAT ABOUT CHARITABLE DONATIONS?
Eldorado works hard to be a positive corporate citizen in the
locations where we operate. Our investments in community
organizations and initiatives are one way that we bring tangible
benefits to improve the infrastructure, education levels and health of
the communities near our sites.
While we regularly donate to charitable organizations, we do not
make contributions to a charity or other organization that would
provide, directly or indirectly, a personal benefit to a government
official or private individual. 6 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
ARE POLITICAL DONATIONS ALLOWED?
Eldorado may occasionally make limited political donations in the
jurisdictions where we work and where it is legal and appropriate to
do so. The CEO must approve all political donations.
We acknowledge and support the right of individuals to participate
in legitimate political activities. However, these activities should not
be conducted on Eldorado time nor involve the use of any Eldorado
resources. Individuals will not be reimbursed for personal political
contributions.
MORE INFORMATION
Please review our ABC Policy and the Gifts and Entertainment
Procedures carefully for more information on this topic..
If you have any questions about whether a gift or expense is allowed
for a public official under the Code and ABC Policy, please contact
our Executive Vice-President and General Counsel or any other
member of our Legal and Compliance team.
Q&A
Q: Giving gifts is part of the local culture and is expected
protocol during meetings. If I give or receive a gift when
meeting with government officials or suppliers, does this
count as bribery?
A: Because of our strict rules about offering benefits to
public officials, you should never offer or provide any gift,
entertainment or other benefit without first consulting
Eldorado’s Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Q: I’m often invited to sporting events or out for dinners by
our business partners or suppliers. Am I allowed to accept
these invitations?
A: You can accept invitations if the invitations are for business
related events and if they comply with our ABC Policy and the
Gifts and Entertainment Procedures. A good question to ask
yourself is “Would an impartial outsider think that attending this
dinner or event is appropriate?” If you are unsure if accepting
the invitation is appropriate, please speak with your manager
or supervisor or a member of our Legal and Compliance team.
Q: When is approval required for giving or receiving a gift?
A: Approval is required when the value of the gift exceeds the
threshold set out in the Gift and Entertainment Procedures, or
when the gift could reasonably be perceived as influencing
business judgment or creating a conflict of interest. In
addition, you may need to consult with the Legal and
Compliance team for gifts involving public officials.ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 7
We Avoid All Conflicts of Interest
A conflict of interest is a situation where there is a real or perceived tension between your interests and the
interests of Eldorado. This includes any familial and/or romantic relationship between one employee and another
employee, prospective employee, contractor or supplier that involves any direct or indirect administrative or
operational authority. Even if you think you can separate your personal interests from the situation and decision-making process, this is still a conflict of interest as there could be the perception that you are influenced by your
personal interests.
We must avoid all situations where there is a real or perceived conflict of interest.
WHAT SHOULD I DO IF I THINK THERE IS A CONFLICT OF INTEREST?
You must always share any good faith concerns you have about a
real or perceived conflict of interest. If you think there might be a
conflict of interest, please contact our Executive Vice-President and
General Counsel or any member of our Legal and Compliance team.
They will determine if there is a conflict of interest and the required
course of action.
WHAT ARE SOME EXAMPLES OF CONFLICTS OF
INTEREST?
Here are some examples of situations where there could be a real or
perceived conflict of interest:
 • You hire a contractor or supplier for Eldorado and a member of your
family or household works for the contractor or supplier. This could
include a spouse, child, parent, sibling, relative by blood or marriage
or other person sharing your home, whether or not they are your
legal relatives.
 • You are employed by or acting as a consultant for a business that
sells products to or performs services for Eldorado.
 • You own a part of a company that does business with Eldorado.
 • You use Eldorado’s corporate property or information for your own
personal gain.
 • You supervise a family member or someone with whom you are in a
romantic relationship (either directly or indirectly).
 • You approve the compensation decisions within your chain of
command for a family member or someone with whom you are in a
romantic relationship.
Q&A
Q: I’ve been asked to work on a small project as a consultant
with another mining company operating in a country where
Eldorado doesn’t have any operations. Is this a conflict of
interest?
A: Yes, this is a conflict of interest. As an Eldorado
employee, you are not allowed to act as a consultant for
other mining companies.
Q: Is it a conflict of interest if I am in a family or romantic
relationship with someone who reports to me?
A: Yes, this is a conflict of interest. You should disclose
the relationship to your immediate supervisor. Although
your relationship is a private matter, to avoid allegations of
favouritism, your supervisor may recommend adjusting the
reporting or supervisory relationship.
Q: I have an ownership interest in a company that provides
goods or services to Eldorado. Is that a conflict of interest?
A: Yes, this is a conflict of interest because your financial
interest in the supplier conflicts with your obligation to always
act in the best interest of Eldorado. 8 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
We Protect Confidential Information
As part of your work with Eldorado, you may be entrusted with confidential information about our company, our
business and our business partners. Confidential information is our property, or the property of our business
partners, and in many cases was developed at great expense.
Confidential information includes information that is not legally
available to the public, such as:
 • technical or scientific information or reports;
 • business or marketing plans or projections;
 • earnings and other internal financial data;
 • personnel information; and
 • other non-public information.
WHAT ARE THE GUIDELINES AROUND CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION?
If you have access to confidential information, we expect that you
will use this information only for legitimate business purposes and
not for personal gain.
We also expect that you will take all reasonable steps to safeguard
confidential information and prevent the loss of confidentiality.
You are not allowed to:
 • discuss confidential information with, or in the presence of, any
unauthorized persons, including family members and friends;
 • share confidential information with third parties unless this is
required as part of your job;
 • share confidential information relating to our business partners with
any third parties unless we have permission to do so;
 • use, reproduce or distribute any trade secrets, copyrighted
information or confidential information provided to Eldorado by a
business partner or other third party; and
 • Enter confidential information into generative tools which use
artificial intelligence except where clearly permitted under the
Acceptable Global Use of Technology Policy.
Even after you stop working for Eldorado, you are not allowed to
share confidential information with others.
WHAT IS INSIDER TRADING?
As an Eldorado employee, you might have access to material
information about Eldorado that is not publicly available and that,
if known, could affect the market price or value of Eldorado’s
securities. You are not allowed to buy, sell or exercise our securities
if you have access to material information. Eldorado may also impose
specific “blackout” periods during which you are not allowed to buy,
sell or exercise our securities.
The prohibitions on insider trading are not limited to Eldorado
securities. If you have material undisclosed information about
another entity (such as our current or potential suppliers or business
partners), you cannot trade in securities of that entity.
You are also not allowed to share material information with others
unless required or permitted by law.
You must comply with the prohibitions above which are detailed in
the Insider Trading Policy. If you have been notified that you are
subject to trading pre-clearance and insider reporting obligations,
you must also follow those procedures.
For more information, please refer to our Corporate Disclosure Policy
and Insider Trading Policy, which describe the restrictions on trading
and the passing of material information to others.
HOW SHOULD I RESPOND TO MEDIA OR ANALYST REQUESTS FOR
INFORMATION?
You might be contacted by someone from the media, shareholders
or the investment community, such as an analyst, who is interested
in learning more about Eldorado. You must forward all media
questions and analyst and shareholder requests to CA-VAN-Comms-IR@eldoradogold.com. For more information, please refer to our
Media Policy.ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 9
We Protect Our Corporate Assets
Our corporate assets and property include everything from our office spaces, equipment and software programs and
licences to intellectual property such as trademarks, designs and copyrights.
Any:
(a) inventions, discoveries or improvements in systems, methods
and processes made by an Eldorado employee through and in
the course of their employment with Eldorado; or
(b) mineral discoveries, opportunities to acquire mineral assets
or interests therein and other business opportunities that are
similar to the business activities conducted by Eldorado, which
come to the attention of an Eldorado employee during the term
of their employment with Eldorado,
must be disclosed by the employee to Eldorado promptly. These
fall under the category of corporate assets and are the absolute
property of Eldorado. They are subject to the confidentiality
obligations of the employee under this Code, both before and after
they have been disclosed to Eldorado.
You are responsible for safeguarding Eldorado’s assets from loss,
damage, theft, misuse and waste. Speak with your supervisor if you
become aware of the loss, damage, theft, misuse or waste of our
assets, or have questions about your proper use of them.
You are expected to use the corporate assets properly and for
legitimate business purposes and in accordance with Eldorado’s
policies.
Q&A
Q: I have a company credit card. If I use it for personal
expenses, am I violating the Code?
A: Yes: Company credit cards are to be used for company
expenses only. Please consult your business unit’s policy for
more information about the acceptable use of a company
credit card.
Q: Can I use my work laptop to check personal email during
breaks?
A: Yes, as long as it doesn’t impact your work productivity,
and complies with Eldorado’s policies, including the Global
Acceptable Use of Technology Policy. 10 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
We Provide Accurate, Timely and Understandable Disclosure
Eldorado’s books and records must be an accurate and complete account of our transactions. In all of our periodic
and annual filings with regulatory authorities, we are required to provide our shareholders and investors with timely
and ongoing full, true and plain disclosure of material business events and our financial situation.
We maintain a Corporate Disclosure Policy, Insider Trading Policy and ABC Policy that outline our responsibilities. As part of those
responsibilities, you are expected to:
HOW SHOULD I RESPOND TO AN AUDIT REQUEST?
You may be contacted by someone from either within Eldorado or outside of Eldorado who is conducting an audit. It is our policy to comply
and co-operate with internal and external inquiries, investigations and audits. However, before responding to an audit request, you must first
notify a member of the Legal and Compliance team to discuss the circumstances.
You can discuss your questions or concerns about this Code or any business practice with our Executive Vice-President and General Counsel
or any other member of our Legal and Compliance team.
 • Comply with international financial reporting standards.
 • Immediately notify any member of our Disclosure Committee in accordance
with our Corporate Disclosure Policy, if you become aware of a material
unreported transaction or event.
 • Maintain a system of internal accounting controls that provides reasonable
assurances to management and the Board of Directors that all transactions are
properly recorded.
 • Maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions.
 • Maintain a system of disclosure controls that will provide reasonable
assurances to our management and the Board of Directors that material
information about us is made known to management, particularly during
the periods in which our quarterly or annual financial statements are being
prepared.
 • Present information in a clear and orderly manner and avoid the use of
unnecessary legal and financial language.
 • Make false or misleading entries in our books
or records.
 • Approve of any undisclosed or unrecorded
bank accounts or assets.
 • Share any non-public information (that is,
information that has not been generally
disclosed in accordance with our Corporate
Disclosure Policy and Insider Trading Policy).
 • Establish any undisclosed or unrecorded funds
or assets.
Always NeverELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 11
We Have a Safe, Healthy and Respectful Work Environment
Eldorado has a large workforce of employees and contractors operating across several countries. We all play a part
in ensuring our workplaces are open, respectful and professional environments.
Under the terms of Eldorado’s Health and Safety Policy, Respectful
Workplace Policy, and Human Rights Policy, everyone at Eldorado is
expected to:
 • maintain a safe and healthy work environment;
 • promote a workplace that is free from discrimination, harassment,
and workplace violence;
 • conduct activities in full compliance with international standards of
environmental, health and safety practices; and
 • promote a workplace where dignity, respect and inclusion are
central - valuing diversity of identity, cognitive diversity and
representation of designated groups, in line with Eldorado’s
Diversity Policy.
If you observe or become aware of behavior that conflicts with
these values, you should report it to your manager or through the
reporting channels outlined in the section How to report a suspected
Code violation.
WHAT ABOUT EMAIL, THE INTERNET AND SOCIAL MEDIA?
Our expectation that you will contribute to a safe, professional and
respectful work environment also applies to your use of email, the
Internet and social media.
This means that:
 • your communications through email or social media should be
respectful and professional; and
 • you must not view, download, share, re-post, promote, or create
online material that is inappropriate for a business environment.
OUR MANAGERS LEAD BY EXAMPLE
Eldorado’s managers are expected to lead by example and to act
with the highest standards of integrity and ethics.
This creates a workplace where employees:
 • are treated with dignity and respect;
 • are comfortable asking questions about ethical conduct;
 • are hired, promoted, disciplined or terminated based on appropriate
business factors, such as performance or organizational needs, and
not because of their race, sex, age or other factors unrelated to our
business; and
 • do not fear retaliation if they report misconduct.
MORE INFORMATION
Please see our Health and Safety Policy, Respectful Workplace
Policy, and our Human Rights Policy for more information about how
we create and maintain safe, inclusive and innovative operations and
healthy workplaces, including provision for additional local worker
voice channels.
Q&A
Q: One of my colleagues often comments on my body and
makes sexual comments that are inappropriate. I have to
work with this person as part of my team and I don’t want to
upset our group dynamics. However, I also don’t like feeling
uncomfortable at work. What should I do?
A: The behaviour of your colleague is unacceptable: You have
the right to a workplace that is free from discrimination
and harassment. You should report this misconduct to your
manager, Human Resources, through a local worker voice
channel, or through the reporting channels described in the
section How to report a suspected Code violation. 12 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
We Are Committed to Being a Responsible Global Corporate Citizen
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE
Eldorado believes that environmental, social and governance (“ESG”)
principles are crucial to developing a resilient company.
We are committed to promoting sustainable business practices
within our operations. Our ESG performance influences our local and
international reputation and our legacy as a business.
Ethical practices and high standards of corporate governance are
central to how we do business. Eldorado’s governance systems
provide mechanisms for the evaluation and effective management of
our operations, employees, risks and relationships. We invest
in developing our leadership, policies, systems and engagement
practices to meet stakeholders’ expectations that we are a trusted
operator. We believe in clear, comprehensive disclosure and open
communication with all of our stakeholders. As part of our continuing
efforts to enhance our corporate governance, we have adopted a
set of Corporate Governance Guidelines.
We seek to minimize our impact on the environment at every stage
of our business activity, from initial exploration to mine closure. We
are committed to meeting our compliance obligations; reducing
our impact on, and adapting to, climate change; and protecting
biodiversity and ecosystems. Accordingly, Eldorado’s Environmental
Policy outlines our commitment to ensure a healthy environment now
and for the future.
Eldorado is committed to protecting international human rights in
all its business activities. We seek to uphold and respect human
rights as defined in the International Bill of Human Rights and the
International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work. We must respect the rights of our
workforce, local community members and other stakeholders who
may be impacted by our business activities. We expect our business
partners, including security providers, contractors and suppliers,
to share this commitment to human rights. For more information on
our commitment to safe, inclusive and innovative operations and
responsibly produced products, please see our Human Rights Policy.
OUR COMMUNITIES
Eldorado seeks to be an active and contributing member of each
community in which we do business. To create long-term and
mutually beneficial relationships with our communities, we must
engage in business practices that respect the value of human
life and our communities. We consider the impact our business
decisions have
on our stakeholders and the communities where we do business,
and we act fairly and honestly with integrity and accountability
in all our decisions. For more information on our commitment to
support engaged and prosperous communities, please see our
Social Performance Policy.
Q&A
Q: I’m concerned about an environmental or social practice
by the Company that I have observed on site or in the
community. What do I do?
A: Eldorado takes all allegations of misconduct related to our
environmental or social performance, including human rights,
extremely seriously. You should file a report to your manager
or through the Whistleblower Reporting Line described in the
section How to report a suspected Code violation.ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 13
We Report Violations of This Code
You are responsible for reporting any suspected violations of this Code, including self-reporting where
applicable. By reporting misconduct, you are contributing to Eldorado’s culture of ethics and integrity.
ASKING A QUESTION ABOUT THE CODE
Any questions you ask about the Code can be made anonymously.
You can also discuss your question or concern about this Code or
a business practice with our Executive Vice-President and General
Counsel or any member of our Legal and Compliance team.
HOW TO REPORT A SUSPECTED CODE VIOLATION
If you suspect a violation of the Code, you are encouraged to speak
to someone at Eldorado about your concerns. You must take one of
the following actions:
 • speak with your manager or supervisor;
 • contact any member of our Legal and Compliance team;
 • contact our Executive Vice-President and General Counsel;
 • contact the Chair of our Audit Committee; or
 • file a report with our Whistleblower Reporting Line, EthicsPoint, at
www.eldorado.ethicspoint.com.
Contact details are provided in the Reporting Contacts section
below. You can anonymously report violations of the Code.
WHAT HAPPENS AFTER YOU FILE A REPORT?
Any questions or violation reports will be reviewed immediately and
taken seriously. All reports will be treated confidentially to the extent
permitted by law, and we will not allow any retaliation against you if
you have acted in good faith in reporting a violation.
Internal personnel charged with overseeing and responding to
complaints and reports will investigate any reported violations and
will determine an appropriate response, including corrective action
and preventative measures when required.
NON-RETALIATION
Eldorado will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who, in good
faith, reports a concern or participates in an investigation, even if the
allegation ultimately is not substantiated. Acting in good faith means
that you have a reasonable belief that the information you provide is
true, and that you provide all the information you have. Anyone found
to have engaged in retaliatory conduct against someone who has
raised a compliance or ethics-related concern in good faith will be
subject to disciplinary action, including possible dismissal.
If you feel you have been subjected to retaliation, contact either
your supervisor, an Eldorado human resources representative,
the Whistleblower Reporting Line or a member of the Legal and
Compliance team.
CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION
Anyone who breaks any laws or violates governmental regulations or
this Code will face appropriate, case-specific disciplinary action that
may include immediate dismissal.
Q&A
Q: I think my finance manager is not properly reporting
transactions to falsely improve Eldorado’s earnings. Who
should I talk to about my concerns?
A: You should contact your finance manager’s immediate
supervisor, any member of the Legal and Compliance team,
the Executive Vice President and General Counsel, the Chair
of the Audit Committee or EthicsPoint, our Whistleblower
Reporting Line. 14 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
This Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is a policy statement. It
does not create a contractual right, commitment or obligation on
behalf of Eldorado and it is not enforceable against Eldorado or any
third party.
Approved by the Board of Directors
October 30, 2025
(Signed)
Steve Reid
Chair of the Board of DirectorsELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 15
LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE TEAM:
e: compliance@eldoradogold.com
WHISTLE BLOWER REPORTING LINE
Eldorado EthicsPoint
w: www.eldorado.ethicspoint.com
CHAIR OF OUR AUDIT COMMITTEE
Teresa Conway
11th Floor, 550 Burrard Street
Vancouver, BC, Canada V6C 2B5
t: 1 604 687 4018
e: teresa.conway@eldoradogold.com
Reporting Contacts 16 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
Onboarding Compliance Certificate
ELDORADO GOLD CORPORATION
AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES
(“Eldorado”)
I. CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
I certify that I have read and understand Eldorado’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (the “Code”) and the other applicable policies of
Eldorado referred to in the Code (including the Corporate Disclosure Policy, Insider Trading Policy, Media Policy, Diversity Policy, Human
Rights Policy, Respectful Workplace Policy, Health and Safety Policy, Social Performance Policy, Global Acceptable Use of Technology Policy
and Environmental Policy). I agree to comply with the Code and all other applicable policies referred to in the Code.
I certify that I am not currently involved in any activities that could be a conflict of interest, whether actual or perceived, except as noted in
a Statement of Exceptions attached to this Compliance Certificate. I acknowledge my ongoing obligation to promptly disclose any actual or
potential conflicts of interest.
II. ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY
I certify that I have read and understand Eldorado’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”), including all requirements and
procedures contained in the ABC Policy. I agree to comply with the ABC Policy.
III. FURTHER CONFIRMATIONS
Except as noted in a Statement of Exceptions attached to this Compliance Certificate, I confirm that I am not in violation of the Code, the ABC
Policy or other applicable Eldorado policies noted above.
I understand that if I violate the Code, the ABC Policy or other applicable Eldorado Policies, I may face disciplinary action as set out in
Eldorado’s policies, including termination of my relationship with Eldorado or any of its affiliates.
Please check one of the following:
 A Statement of Exceptions is attached.
 No Statement of Exceptions is attached.
Date:
Signature:
Name:
Title/Position:
 ELDORADO GOLD | CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 17
Onboarding Compliance Certificate Annual Compliance Certificate
ELDORADO GOLD CORPORATION
AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES
(“Eldorado”)
I. CODE OF ETHICS/GLOBAL COMPLIANCE POLICIES
1. I have read and understand Eldorado’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (the “Code”), the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC
Policy”) and the other applicable policies of Eldorado referred to in the Code (Corporate Disclosure Policy, Insider Trading Policy, Media
Policy, Diversity Policy, Human Rights Policy, Respectful Workplace Policy, Health and Safety Policy, Social Performance Policy, Global
Acceptable Use of Technology Policy and Environmental Policy) (collectively, the “Global Compliance Policies”). I confirm my agreement to
comply with the Global Compliance Policies.
2. All Eldorado employees or contractors who I am responsible for overseeing have been informed of and provided with the Global Compliance
Policies.
3. During the calendar year referred to above, I have reported all violations or potential violations of the Global Compliance Policies of which I
was aware.
4. Except as noted in a Statement of Exceptions attached to this Compliance Certificate, I confirm that I am not in violation of the Global
Compliance Policies.
5. I certify that I am not currently involved in any activities that could be a conflict of interest, whether actual or perceived, except as noted in
a Statement of Exceptions attached to this Compliance Certificate. I acknowledge my ongoing obligation to promptly disclose any actual or
potential conflicts of interest.
II. ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY
With respect to the ABC Policy, I specifically confirm:
1. I have not violated any of the terms or requirements of the ABC Policy.
2. I am not aware of any violation or potential violation of the ABC Policy by any Representative (as that term is defined in the Policy).
3. I will participate in Eldorado’s anti-corruption training as requested and on a periodic basis.
4. I also understand that failure to comply with applicable anti-corruption laws may result in prosecution, with penalties including fines and/
or imprisonment.
III. FURTHER CONFIRMATIONS
I understand that if I violate the Code, the ABC Policy or other applicable Eldorado Policies, I may face disciplinary action as set out in
Eldorado’s policies, including termination of my relationship with Eldorado or any of its affiliates.
Please check one of the following:
 A Statement of Exceptions is attached.
 No Statement of Exceptions is attached.
Date:
Signature:
Name:
Title/Position:
 Eldorado Gold Corporation
11th Floor, 550 Burrard Street
Vancouver, BC, Canada V6C 2B5
t: +1 604 687 4018
f: +1 604 687 4026
Toll-free: +1 888 353 8166
eldoradogold.com
TSX: ELD
 NYSE: EGO
Breaking new ground.