EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE DATED DECEMBER 15, 2021

ego_ex991

 Exhibit
99.1

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

 

 

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO

 

December 15, 2021

 

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Results of Skouries Project Feasibility
Study; After-Tax NPV of US$1.3 Billion and IRR of 19%

 

VANCOUVER, BC – Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado”, the “Company”
or “We”) announces the completion of a Feasibility
Study (“FS”) on the wholly-owned Skouries project,
located in northern Greece. As previously announced, the Company
will host a conference call, later today, on Wednesday, December
15, 2021, at 6:00 PM ET (3:00 PM PT). The call details are at the
end of this news release. All financial figures are in U.S. dollars
unless otherwise stated.
 

Feasibility Study
Highlights1
 

●

Robust Economics:

o
19%
after-tax Internal Rate of Return (“IRR”) and $1.3
billion after-tax Net Present Value (“NPV”) (5%), based
on long-term prices of $1,500 per ounce (“oz”) gold and
$3.85 per pound copper.

o
IRR
of 24% and NPV (5%) of $1.8 billion using approximate spot prices
of $1,800 per oz gold and $4.25 per pound copper.

●
2.9 million ounce Life of
Mine (“LOM”) gold
production

o
Average
annual production of 140,000 oz of gold and 67 million pounds of
copper (approximately 312,000 oz gold equivalent) over a 20-year
mine life.

o
Average annual gold production of 182,000 oz in the first 5
years of
production.

●
Negative cash operating cost of
$(368) per oz sold over the
LOM.

●
Negative All-In Sustaining
Costs (“AISC”) of $(17) per oz sold over the LOM.

●
Initial
capital costs
to complete the Skouries project of
$845 million, an increase of 23% over the March 2018
Pre-Feasibility Study1
(“PFS”), primarily related
to increased input prices, scope change related to water management
and an enhanced execution plan.

 

(1)
PFS filed as a technical report in
March 2018 titled “Technical Report, Skouries Project,
Greece” with an effective date of January 1,
2018.

 

“The completion of the Skouries FS is an important milestone
for the Company. The results of the study reflect the robust
economics of this world-class asset that will support our growth
strategy,” said George Burns, Eldorado’s President and
CEO. “Eldorado is looking forward to expanding our production
profile at the Kassandra Mines and developing this region as a
cornerstone for the Company.”

 

“The project has been significantly de-risked through the
infrastructure built to date, the Amended Investment Agreement
ratified by the Greek government in March 2021, and today, the
Feasibility Study which reflects a more resilient project. Skouries
remains a very attractive and executable project that will have a
lasting, positive impact, and create additional economic and social
value for our shareholders and all
stakeholders.”

 

 

 
1

 

“Completion of the Skouries Feasibility Study is a critical
milestone and will allow the company to advance financing
alternatives for the project. Subject to financing and Board
approval, target re-start of construction at Skouries is mid-2022.
With timely completion of construction in two and a half years,
Skouries would provide significant upside to our five-year
production profile.”
 

Summary of Skouries Feasibility Study
 

Skouries Feasibility Summary

Metrics

Units

Results

Type of operation

Open Pit & Underground

Life of Mine

years

20

Total Ore Mined

Mt

147

Contained Gold Mined

Moz

3.6

Contained Copper Mined

Blbs

1.6

Strip Ratio

w:o

1.01

Throughput

Mtpa

8

Head Grade – gold

g/t Au

0.77

Head Grade – copper

%

0.50

Recoveries – gold

%

83

Recoveries – copper

%

90

Gold Production

Total
Production, LOM

Moz

2.9

Annual
Production, LOM

oz

140,000

Annual
Production, first 5 years

oz

182,000

Copper Production

 

 

Total
Production, LOM

Mlbs

1,411

Annual
Production, LOM

Mlbs

67

Annual
Production, first 5 years

Mlbs

76

Per Unit Costs, LOM

 

 

Total
Mining Costs

$/t, processed

13

Processing

$/t, processed

11

G&A

$/t, processed

3

Total
Operating Costs

$/t, processed

27

Per Ounce Costs, LOM

 

 

Cash
Operating Costs

$/oz

(368)

AISC

$/oz

(17)

Capital Costs

 

 

Initial
Phase 1 Capital

$M

845

Phase
2 Underground Capital

$M

172

Sustaining
Capital

$M

850

NPV5%,
after-tax

$B

1.3

After-tax IRR

%

19

Payback Period

years

<4

(1)

These financial measures or ratios are non-IFRS financial measures
or ratios. See the section 'Non-IFRS Measures”
below.

Note: Skouries 2021 Feasibility Study assumes a gold price of
$1,500/oz, copper price of $3.85/lb, $US/Euro exchange rate of 1.13
for 2022, 1.15 for 2023, 1.18 for 2024, 1.2 thereafter
 

The technical report for the Skouries FS will be filed on SEDAR and
EDGAR in accordance with the requirements under National Instrument
43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for
Mineral Projects (NI
43-101).

 

Skouries Project Overview
 

The Skouries project, is part of the Kassandra Mines Complex, and
located within the Halkidiki Peninsula of Northern Greece. It is a
gold-copper porphyry deposit designed to be mined using a
combination of conventional open pit and underground mining
techniques. The total life of mine is 20 years consisting of two
phases. Phase 1 is a combined open pit and underground mine
operating over approximately 9 years. Phase 2 consists of mining
solely from the underground mine for a further 11 years. The
mineral process facility will produce a gold-copper
concentrate.
 

The Skouries asset was acquired through the acquisition of European
Goldfields in 2012 when the project was in feasibility stage and
construction commenced in 2013. Construction was halted and the
project was placed on care and maintenance in November 2017.
Negotiations for the Amended Investment Agreement between Eldorado
and the Hellenic Republic commenced following a change in the
government. The Amended Investment Agreement was signed on February
5, 2021, and ratified in March 2021.
 

 

 
2

 

Initial and Sustaining Capital
 

The Phase 1 capital cost to complete the Skouries project is
estimated to be $845 million with the breakdown provided in the
table below.
 

Phase 1 Capital Cost Estimate

Capital Cost Item

$M

Mine

191

Process plant and infrastructure

270

IWMF and Water Management

119

Total Direct Capital Costs

580

Indirect costs

47

EPCM (or other) costs

75

Owner’s costs

62

Contingency

81

Total Capital Cost - Phase 1

845

 

The Phase 1 capital cost estimate of $845 million is a 23% increase
from the $689 million estimate in the PFS. The four key areas that
account for the increase are as follows:
 

1.
Execution
Model: The project execution approach has been updated to reflect
an Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management
(“EPCM”) delivery model with a Tier 1 partner for
timely delivery of the project. An EPCM approach allows for a
reduction in interfaces and allows the Company to focus on
operational readiness, training, governance, and working with our
stakeholders. It also includes an additional factor to account for
cost escalation during the execution period. This increased capital
cost by $53 million, or approximately 8%.

 

2.
Input
Costs: The FS has been updated to reflect current commodity prices,
including steel, copper, cement and labour, increasing the capital
cost estimate by $51 million, or approximately 7%

.

3.
Scope
Enhancement:

●
Water
Management: To increase mine resiliency for changes in return
periods and intensity of precipitation events, Eldorado modified
the design of the water management infrastructure. This includes a
larger contact water management pond, an increase to the capacity
of the water treatment plant, an increase in the number of water
re-injection wells, and an updated spillway design. This will
better position Skouries to handle major weather events throughout
the mine life.

●
Underground
deferral: A portion of the underground mine was deferred to reduce
risk in execution and operational readiness. Execution risk is
reduced by focusing on the critical areas to achieve first gold.
Operational readiness risk is reduced by focusing efforts on
commissioning and training to commence operations. The underground
activity is confined to a test stoping program and core
infrastructure. This will allow project delivery to focus on the
open pit and then transition to the underground, significantly
reducing parallel activities.

●
These
scope enhancements, all of which have been incorporated, increased
the capital cost estimate by $33 million, or approximately
5%.

 

4.
Foreign
Exchange: In the four years since the PFS was published,
strengthening of the Euro to the US dollar has increased the
capital cost estimate increased by $19 million, or approximately
3%.

 

 
3

 

 

In addition to the Phase 1 capital costs of $845 million, future
capital requirements, include $172 million relating to Phase 2
underground material handling systems, to be spent between years
4-10 of the operation. Additional sustaining capital is estimated
to be $850 million over the LOM, or $43 million on average per
year.
 

De-risking the Skouries Project
 

The project has been de-risked several ways. In addition to the
execution and ratification of the Amended Investment Agreement with
the Greek state and the completion of the Skouries FS, there is
also prior completion of infrastructure and construction at the
project site. Prior to entering care & maintenance in 2017,
construction at the Skouries project was approximately 50%
complete. Completed works include a major mill mechanical equipment
set, stripping of the open pit, large amounts of civil works and
tagged items being managed with a vendor-approved preservation
plan. The project has also successfully removed and relocated
archeological antiquities from ancient mining activities on
the Skouries site.
 
 

Skouries Project Cash Flows
 

A table providing the deterministic life of mine average production
and cash flow forecast is included at the end of the news
release.
 

 
4

 

 

Project Sensitivities
 

At base case prices and a 5% discount rate, the after-tax NPV and
IRR are most sensitive to metal prices and least sensitive to
capital costs. Changes to gold and copper prices have a similar
impact on the project’s financial outcomes.
 

Sensitivity Table – Gold and Copper Price

Gold Price

($/oz)

Copper Price

($/lb)

After-Tax NPV

($B)

After-Tax IRR

(%)

$1,300

$3.25

0.7

13

$1,500 (base
case)

$3.85

1.3

19

$1,800 (spot)

$4.25

1.8

24

 

Below is a table summarizing key value driver sensitivities of
capital expenditures (“Capex”) and operational
expenditures (“Opex”).
 

Sensitivity Table – Capex

Capital Cost

After-Tax NPV

($B)

After-Tax IRR

(%)

-15%

1.4

23

$845 M (base case)

1.3

19

+15%

1.1

16

Sensitivity Table – Opex

Operating Cost $/t

After-Tax NPV

($B)

After-Tax IRR

(%)

-15%

1.5

21

27.0 (base case)

1.3

19

+15%

1.0

17

 

Reserves and Resources Description
 

The Skouries project is a gold-copper porphyry deposit with
mineralization in stockwork veins, veinlets and disseminated
styles. The deposit has been drilled to a depth of 920 meters from
surface and the ore body is open at depth. In addition to the
knowledge obtained from our existing operations in the Kassandra
complex, the extensive detailed drilling of the deposit and
associated testwork provides high confidence in the quality and
composition of the ore body.
 

Skouries Mineral Reserves and Resources, as of September 30,
2021

Category

Resource

(t x 1000)

Grade Au

(g/t)

Grade Cu

(g/t)

Contained Au

(oz x 1000)

Contained Cu

(t x 1000)

Total Reserves

Proven

73,101

0.87

0.52

2,053

381

Probable

74,015

0.66

0.48

1,576

359

Proven and Probable

147,116

0.77

0.50

3,630

740

Total Resources

Measured

90,714

0.85

0.51

2,479

466

Indicated

149,260

0.53

0.44

2,551

652

Measured and Indicated

239,974

0.65

0.47

5,030

1,118

Inferred

67,657

0.37

0.40

814

267

Notes
on Mineral Resources and Reserves:

1.
Mineral resources
and mineral reserves are as of September 30, 2021

2.
The mineral
resources and mineral reserves were classified using logic
consistent with the CIM Definition Standards for Mineral Resources
& Mineral Reserves (2014) incorporated, by reference into NI
43-101.

3.
Mineral reserves
are included in the mineral resources.

4.
The mineral
resources and mineral reserves are disclosed on a total project
basis.

5.
Mineral Resource
Reporting and demonstration of Reasonable Prospects for Eventual
Economic Extraction: The mineral resources used a long term look
gold metal price of $1,800/oz for the determination of resource
cut-off grades or values. This guided execution of the next step
where constraining surfaces or volumes were created to control
resource reporting. Underground resources were constrained by 3D
volumes whose design was guided by the reporting cut-off grade or
value, contiguous areas of mineralization and mineability. Only
material internal to these volumes were eligible for reporting. The
Skouries project, with both open pit and underground resources have
the open pit resources constrained by the permit and underground
resources constrained by a reporting shape.

6.
Long-term metal
price assumptions: Gold price: $1,300/oz, silver price: $17.00/oz,
copper price: $2.75/lb, lead price: $2,000/t, zinc price:
$2,300/t.

7.
Reserve cut-off
grades at Skouries: $10.60/t NSR (open pit), $33.33/t NSR
(underground). Resource cut-off grades at Skouries: 0.30 g/t Au
equivalent grade (open pit), 0.70 g/t Au equivalent grade
(underground).

8.
Qualified Persons:
John Battista, MAusIMM., of Mining Plus is responsible for Skouries
(open pit) mineral reserves; Colm Keogh, P.Eng., Manager,
Operations Support for the Company, is responsible for Skouries
(underground) mineral reserves; Sean McKinley, P.Geo., Manager,
Mine Geology & Reconciliation for the Company, is responsible
for the Skouries mineral resources.

 

 
5

 

 

Project Scope
 

The project scope comprises an open pit and underground mining
operation, a processing facility, utilities, water management, and
tailings facility.
 

Mining Operations: Open pit mining will be done by conventional
truck-shovel operation. The mining sequence will consist of
drilling, blasting, loading and hauling of ore and waste materials
for processing and waste disposal. Direct feed ore from the open
pit will be hauled to the Skouries processing plant by the fleet of
90t trucks. During Phase 1, approximately 8 million tonnes of
low-grade ore will be hauled to the low-grade ore stockpile where
it is planned to be processed during Phase 2 of the
project.
 

Underground ore will be recovered by conventional sublevel open
stoping with paste tailings backfill. Underground ore production
during pit operations will attain 2.5 million tonnes per annum
(Phase 1) and will subsequently be expanded to 6.5 million tonnes
per annum following pit depletion. Phase 2 will introduce an
automated material handling system to include underground crushing
and shaft hoisting necessary to achieve the higher
volume.
 

Processing: The Skouries process plant flowsheet consists of a
primary crusher, SAG mill, pebble crusher and ball mill to achieve
a primary grind size of 120 microns. The feed will be run through a
rougher and scavenger flotation circuit where the flotation product
will produce concentrate with a grade of approximately 30 g/t gold
and 26% copper. Overall recoveries are expected to be 83% gold and
90% copper.
 

Tailings: Skouries will use dry stack tailings impoundment,
the most sustainable method used to store filtered tailings. Dry
stack tailings reduce the risk of a tailings dam failure and
requires a significantly reduced footprint. This method enables
maximum recovery of process water for reuse.
 

Water Management: The
Skouries Water Management Plan is compliant with Greek and EU
legislation and is based on current view environmental modeling,
with higher storm intensity and higher return event frequency than
prior versions. The water management system will include a large
contact pond, a high-capacity water treatment plant and enhanced
water re-injection well capacities.
 

 

 
6

 

 

Permitting: Approval
was granted in April 2021 by the Greek Ministry of Energy and
Environment for a modification to the Kassandra Mines Environmental
Impact Assessment (“EIA”) to allow for the use of dry
stack tailings disposal at the Skouries project. A copy of the news
release can be accessed at the following link.
The Company plans to submit a
modification to the Kassandra Mines EIA by the end of 2021 that
will cover the expansion of the Olympias processing facility and
the Stratoni port modernization. Approval of this modification is
expected in 2022.
 

Emissions: The Skouries operating scope considers underground
mine electrification to the fullest extent practical and full
project deployment of technology to improve efficiency and decrease
energy intensity. Eldorado will continue with energy and greenhouse
gas studies to demonstrate alignment with the Greek State and the
European Union in their efforts to continue to reduce the carbon
intensity of the Greek electrical grid.
 

Social Inclusion and Local Empowerment
 

The Skouries project will have a significant positive impact on the
local economy. The operational readiness and training plans
included in the Skouries FS will ensure local hiring
preference. 
Over the life of the
Kassandra Mines, $80 million will be committed to Corporate Social
Responsibility programs, including community, cultural, social,
environmental and charitable purposes. In addition, Eldorado will
provide re-skilling and upskilling training for employees regularly
through the development of an innovative Technical Training
Center.
 

Skouries Feasibility Study Conference Call Details
 

Eldorado
will host a conference call to discuss the Skouries FS later today,
on Wednesday, December 15, 2021, at 6:00 PM ET (3:00 PM
PT).

 

The
call will be webcast and can be accessed at Eldorado Gold's
website: www.eldoradogold.com,
or via: https://services.choruscall.ca/links/eldoradogold20211215.html

 

 Conference
Call Details 

 

 Replay
(available until January 19, 2022)

 Date: December 15,
2021 

 

 Vancouver: 
+1 604
638 9010

 Time: 
6:00 PM
ET (3:00 PM PT)

 

 Toll Free: 
1 800
319 6413

 Dial in: 
+1 604
638 5340 

 

 Access code: 
8125

 Toll free 
1 800
319 4610

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
7

 

Skouries Project Cash Flows
 

 

(1) EUR/USD exchange rate of 1.13 in 2022, 1.15 in 2023, 1.18 in
2024, and 1.20 thereafter.
 

 
 

 
8

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado is a gold and base metals producer with mining,
development and exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece
and Romania. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado’s common shares trade on the
Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE: EGO).
 

Qualified Person
 

Except
as otherwise noted, scientific and technical information contained
in this press release was reviewed and approved by Simon Hille,
FAusIMM, Vice President, Technical Services for Eldorado Gold
Corporation, and a "qualified person" under NI 43-101.
 

The
relevant qualified persons have verified the data disclosed
including sampling, analytical and test data underlying the
information contained in this news release. This included an
appropriate Quality Control sampling program of reference
standards, blanks and duplicates to monitor the integrity of all
assay results.
 

Non-IFRS Measures
 

Certain non-IFRS measures, including cash costs, all-in sustaining
cost ("AISC"), and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization ("EBITDA"), sustaining capital, non-IFRS ratios,
including EBITDA margin, are included in this press release. The
Company believes that these measures, in addition to conventional
measures prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), provide investors an
improved ability to evaluate the underlying performance of the
Company. Please see the September 30, 2021 MD&A for
explanations and discussion of these non-IFRS measures. The
non-IFRS measures are intended to provide additional information
and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for
measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. These
measures do not have any standardized meaning prescribed under
IFRS, and therefore may not be comparable to other
issuers.
 

Cash Costs
 

Cash
operating costs and cash operating costs per ounce sold are
non-IFRS financial measures and ratios. In the gold mining
industry, these metrics are common performance measures but do not
have any standardized meaning under IFRS. We follow the
recommendations of the Gold Institute Production Cost Standard. The
Gold Institute, which ceased operations in 2002, was a
non-regulatory body and represented a global group of producers of
gold and gold products. The production cost standard developed by
the Gold Institute remains the generally accepted standard of
reporting cash operating costs of production by gold mining
companies. Cash operating costs include mine site operating costs
such as mining, processing and administration, but exclude royalty
expenses, depreciation and depletion, share based payment expenses
and reclamation costs. Revenue from sales of by-products including
silver, lead and zinc reduce cash operating costs. Cash operating
costs per ounce sold is based on ounces sold and is calculated by
dividing cash operating costs by volume of gold ounces sold. We
disclose cash operating costs and cash operating costs per ounce
sold as we believe the measures provide valuable assistance to
investors and analysts in evaluating the Company's operational
performance and ability to generate cash flow. The most directly
comparable measure prepared in accordance with IFRS is production
costs. Cash operating costs and cash operating costs per ounce of
gold sold should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute
for measures prepared in accordance with IFRS.
 

 

 
9

 

 

AISC
 

AISC
and AISC per ounce sold are non-IFRS financial measures and ratios.
These financial measures and ratios are intended to assist readers
in evaluating the total costs of producing gold from current
operations. While there is no standardized meaning across the
industry for this measure, our definition conforms to the
definition of AISC set out by the World Gold Council and the
updated guidance note dated November 14, 2018. We define AISC as
the sum of total cash costs (as defined and calculated above),
sustaining capital expenditure relating to current operations
(including capitalized stripping and underground mine development),
sustaining leases (cash basis), sustaining exploration and
evaluation cost related to current operations (including sustaining
capitalized evaluation costs), reclamation cost accretion and
amortization related to current gold operations and corporate and
allocated general and administrative expenses. Corporate and
allocated general and administrative expenses include general and
administrative expenses, share-based payments and defined benefit
pension plan expense. Corporate and allocated general and
administrative expenses do not include non-cash depreciation. As
this measure seeks to reflect the full cost of gold production from
current operations, growth capital and reclamation cost accretion
not related to operating gold mines are excluded. Certain other
cash expenditures, including tax payments, financing charges
(including capitalized interest), except for financing charges
related to leasing arrangements, and costs related to business
combinations, asset acquisitions and asset disposals are also
excluded. AISC per ounce sold is based on ounces sold and is
calculated by dividing AISC by volume of gold ounces
sold.
 

EBITDA and EBITDA Margin
 

EBITDA from continuing operations and Adjusted EBITDA from
continuing operations are non-IFRS financial measures. EBITDA from
continuing operations represents net earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA includes net
pre-commercial production proceeds and removes the impact of
impairments or reversals of impairments, share based payments,
losses or gains on disposals of assets, executive severance costs,
mine standby costs relating to the COVID-19 pandemic and other
non-cash or non-recurring expenses or recoveries. In addition to
conventional measures prepared in accordance with IFRS, we and
certain investors use EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as an indicator of
the Company's ability to generate liquidity by producing operating
cash flow to fund working capital needs, service debt obligations
and fund capital expenditures.
 

EBITDA is also frequently used by investors and analysts for
valuation purposes based on an observed or inferred relationship
between EBITDA and market values to determine the approximate total
enterprise value of a company. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are
intended to provide additional information to investors and
analysts and do not have any standardized definition under IFRS,
and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for
measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. EBITDA
and Adjusted EBITDA exclude the impact of cash costs of financing
activities and taxes, and therefore are not necessarily indicative
of operating earnings or cash flow from operations as determined
under IFRS. Other companies may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted
EBITDA differently.
 

 

 
10

 

 

Sustaining Capital
 

Sustaining capital and growth capital are non-IFRS financial
measures. We define sustaining capital as capital required to
maintain current operations at existing levels. Sustaining capital
excludes non-cash sustaining lease additions, unless otherwise
noted, and does not include expenditure related to capitalized
evaluation, development projects, or other growth or sustaining
capital not related to operating gold mines. Sustaining capital
also excludes capitalized interest. Growth capital is defined as
capital expenditures for major growth projects or enhancement
capital for significant infrastructure improvements at existing
operations.
 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations
 

Lisa
Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757
2237 or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com
 

Media
 

Louise
McMahon, Director Communications & Public Affairs

604.616
2296 or 1.888.363.8166

louise.mcmahon@eldoradogold.com

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.
 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: the Company's ability to successfully advance the
Skouries project and achieve the results provided for in the FS;
the results of the FS, including the forecasts for the economics,
life of mine, required capital, costs, and cash flow at the
Skouries project; expected production, including grade; forecasted
NPV, IRR, EBITDA, and AISC; expectations regarding advancement and
development of the Skouries project, including the ability to meet
expectations and the timing thereof; expectations on mining
operations; requirements for permitting; expectations on emissions;
the social impact and benefits of the Skouries project, including
in the local communities; estimates of Mineral Resources and
Reserves, including all underlying assumptions, and the conversion
of Mineral Resources to Mineral Reserves; the filing of a technical
report reflecting the results of the FS; our expectation as to our
future financial and operating performance, including future cash
flow, estimated cash costs, expected metallurgical recoveries, gold
price outlook; and our strategy, plans and goals, including our
proposed exploration, development, construction, permitting and
operating plans and priorities, related timelines and
schedules.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.
 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about our ability
to execute our plans relating to the Skouries project as set out in
the FS, including the timing thereof; ability to obtain all
required approvals and permits; the assumptions provided for in the
FS will be accurate, including cost estimates; no changes in input
costs, exchange rates, development and gold; the geopolitical,
economic, permitting and legal climate that we operate in,
including at the Skouries project; the future price of gold and
other commodities; exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses;
production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical
recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions
or delays on our business and the ability to achieve our
goals.
 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.
 

 

 
11

 

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: ability to execute on plans relating to the Skouries
project, including the timing thereof, ability to achieve the
social impact and benefits contemplated; risk relating to
permitting and obtaining the required approvals, changes in
exchange rates, input costs, development costs and gold prices;
geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), risks related
to mineral tenure and permits; gold and other commodity price
volatility; recoveries of gold and other metals; results of test
work; risks regarding potential and pending litigation and
arbitration proceedings relating to the Company’s business,
properties and operations; expected impact on reserves and the
carrying value; the updating of the reserve and resource models and
life of mine plans; mining operational and development risk;
foreign country operational risks; risks of sovereign investment;
regulatory risks and liabilities including, regulatory environment
and restrictions, and environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production,
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and
recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative
nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility;
competition; loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral
claims or properties, as well as those risk factors discussed in
the sections titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and
"Risk factors in our business" in the Company's most recent Annual
Information Form and Annual Report on Form 40-F. The reader is
directed to carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our
most recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR and EDGAR under
our Company name, which discussion is incorporated by reference in
this release, for a fuller understanding of the risks and
uncertainties that affect the Company’s business and
operations.
 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the United
States.
 

Financial Information and condensed statements contained herein or
attached hereto may not be suitable for readers that are unfamiliar
with the Company and is not a substitute for reading the
Company’s financial statements and related MD&A available
on our website and on SEDAR under our Company name. The reader is
directed to carefully review such document for a full understanding
of the financial information summarized herein.
 

Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have
demonstrated economic viability. With respect to “indicated
mineral resource” and “inferred mineral
resource”, there is a great amount of uncertainty as to their
existence and a great uncertainty as to their economic and legal
feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of a
“measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral
resource” or “inferred mineral resource” will
ever be upgraded to a higher category.
 

Cautionary Note to US Investors Concerning Estimates of Measured,
Indicated and Inferred Resources
 

Technical disclosure regarding the Company’s properties
included herein (the “Technical Disclosure”) has been
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the securities laws
in effect in Canada, which differ from the requirements of United
States securities laws. The terms “mineral reserve”,
“proven mineral reserve”, “probable mineral
reserve”, “mineral resource”, “measured
mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource”
and “inferred mineral resource” are Canadian mining
terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-10. NI 43-101 is a rule
developed by the Canadian Securities Administrators that
establishes standards for all public disclosure an issuer makes of
scientific and technical information concerning mineral projects.
These standards differ from the requirements of the United States
Securities Commission (the “SEC”) applicable to
domestic United States reporting companies. Accordingly,
information contained herein contain descriptions of our mineral
deposits that may not be comparable to similar information made
public by United States companies subject to the SEC’s
reporting and disclosure requirements.

 
12