EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT

Blueprint

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

ELDORADO GOLD CORPORATION
 

FORM 51-102F3
 

MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT
 

Item 1.

Name and Address of Company

 

Eldorado
Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or the
“Company”)
 

Suite 1188 – Bentall 5
 

550 Burrard Street
 

Vancouver, British Columbia V6C 2B5
 

Item 2.

Date of Material Change

 

March 3, 2020
 

Item 3.

News Release

 

The news release was disseminated by WEST, and filed on SEDAR,
on March
3, 2020.
 

Item 4.

Summary of Material Change

 

The Company announced the filing of its National Instrument 43-101
compliant Technical Reports in respect of each of its
Efemçukuru Gold Mine in Turkey, effective as of December 31,
2019 (the “Efemçukuru Technical
Report”); its
Kişladağ Gold Mine in Turkey, effective as of January 17,
2020 (the “Kişladağ Technical
Report”) and its Olympias
Gold Mine in Greece, effective as of December 31, 2019 (the
“Olympias Technical
Report”).
 

The Company today filed three separate technical reports for its
Kisladag, Olympias and Efemcukuru projects (the
“Technical
Reports”). Further to the
Company’s news release dated February 20, 2020 (Eldorado
Announces 15 Year Mine Life at Kisladag; Provides 2020 Guidance and
Long-term Outlook) (“Guidance
Release”), these
Technical Reports have been prepared pursuant to Canadian
Securities Administrators' National Instrument 43-101 - Standards
of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”), and may be found on the Company’s
website (www.eldoradogold.com) or under the Company's SEDAR profile
(www.sedar.com).
 

Item 5.

Full Description of Material Change

 

The Company announced the filing of its National Instrument 43-101
compliant Technical Reports in respect of each of its
Efemçukuru Gold Mine in Turkey, effective as of December 31,
2019 (the “Efemçukuru Technical
Report”); its
Kişladağ Gold Mine in Turkey, effective as of January 17,
2020 (the “Kişladağ Technical
Report”) and its Olympias
Gold Mine in Greece, effective as of December 31, 2019 (the
“Olympias Technical
Report”).

 

Technical Report, Efemcukuru Gold Mine, Turkey

 

The Efemcukuru Technical Report, with an effective date of December
31, 2019, was prepared by the following Qualified Persons as
defined by NI 43-101: Ertan Uludag, P. Geo., Imola Gotz, P. Eng.,
Paul Skayman, FAusIMM, David Sutherland, P.Eng., and Sean McKinley,
P.Geo., and has been filed to update certain scientific and
technical information regarding the operations at the Efemcukuru
Gold Mine.

 

1

 

 

Technical Report, Kisladag Gold Mine, Turkey

 

The Kisladag Technical Report, with an effective date of January
17, 2020, was prepared by the following Qualified Persons as
defined by NI 43-101: Stephen Juras, P. Geo., David Sutherland,
P.Eng., Paul Skayman, FAusIMM, Richard Miller, P.Eng., and Sean
McKinley, P.Geo., and has been filed to confirm a 15-year mine life
based on the completed long-cycle heap leach testwork and the
replacement of the tertiary crushing circuit with a high-pressure
grinding roll circuit and to confirm the Company’s updated
disclosure of mineral reserves contained in its Guidance
Release.

 

Technical Report, Olympias Mine, Greece

 

The Olympias Technical Report, with an effective date of December
31, 2019, was prepared by the following Qualified Persons as
defined by NI 43-101: David Sutherland, P.Eng., Ertan Uludag, P.
Geo., Colm Keogh, P. Eng., Paul Skayman, FAusIMM, and Sean
McKinley, P.Geo, and has been filed to update certain scientific
and technical information regarding the operations at the Olympias
Mine.

 

For further information regarding the results of the Technical
Reports, please refer to the Company’s material change report
filed under the Company's SEDAR profile (www.sedar.com).
 

Efemçukuru Gold Mine
 

Eldorado,
an international gold mining company based in Vancouver, British
Columbia, owns and operates the Efemçukuru gold mine in Turkey
(the “Project”)
through its wholly owned Turkish subsidiary, Tüprag Metal
Madencilik Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi (Tüprag).
Eldorado has prepared a technical report on the Efemçukuru
gold mine to provide an updated description of the geology and
mineralization, mineral resources and mineral reserves, and mine
and mill operations in light of the long shelf life of the existing
Technical Report whose Effective Date was August 01, 2007
(Technical Report on the Efemçukuru Project,
2007).
 

Information
and data for this report were obtained from Efemçukuru gold
mine. The work entailed review of pertinent geological, mining,
process and metallurgical data in sufficient detail to support the
preparation of the Efemçukuru Technical Report.
 

The
qualified persons responsible for preparing the Efemçukuru
Technical Report as defined in National Instrument 43-101 -
Standards of Disclosure for
Mineral Projects and in compliance with 43-101F1 are David
Sutherland, P.Eng., Sean McKinley, P.Geo., Ertan Uludag, P.Geo.,
Paul Skayman, FAusIMM, and Imola Götz, P.Eng., whom are all
are employees of Eldorado. All of the qualified persons have
visited the Efemçukuru Gold mine.
 

1.
Property
Description, Location and Access

 

The
Efemçukuru mine has been an operating underground mine in
commercial production since 2011 with facilities consisting of an
underground crushing plant, milling and flotation plant, filtration
and paste backfill plant, and water treatment plant, along with
ancillary buildings.
 

The
Efemçukuru mine site is situated within the Aegean climatic
zone, which is characterized by hot and dry summers and warm and
rainy winters. The mine is located in İzmir province in
western Turkey, approximately 20 km from İzmir, near the
village of Efemçukuru (Figure 1). Access to the mine site is
via approximately 40 km of paved roads from the city of Izmir to
the northeast and county of Menderes to the east (Figure 1).
Alternative accesses are from the Seferihisar highway to the west
and Izmir-Kavacık road to the northeast. Water is supplied
from onsite water treatment sourced largely from underground
dewatering and site collection ponds, the plant requires 75
m3 of
water per hour.

 

 
2

 

 

Power
from the nation grid is connected at Çamlı village with a
34.5 kV transmission line, the 15 km line was constructed by
Tüprag in 2011 and transferred to the electrical
authority.
 

 

The
Project land position consists of a single operating license,
number 51792, with a total area of 2261.49 ha as of December 2018.
According to Turkish mining law, Tüprag retains the right to
explore and develop any mineral resources contained within the
license area provided fees and taxes are maintained. The license
was issued on April 20, 1999 and renewed on August 19, 2013 and is
currently set to expire on August 19, 2033. Within the 126.5 ha
operating area, forestry land makes up about 80%, treasury land
makes approximately 1%. The remaining area is private land and as
of May 2018 is 100% owned by Tüprag.
 

Mining
licences in Turkey are divided into 5 groups. The Efemcukuru
licence is in group 4 which includes gold, silver, and platinum
mines. Royalty rates for group 4 licences are calculated on a
sliding scale implemented in 2019. Royalty rates (Table 1) are
based on the run of mine (ROM) sales price. The ROM sales price is
calculated by subtracting processing, transport, and depreciation
costs from the gold and silver revenues. This amount is then
multiplied by the appropriate royalty rate. The royalty rates are
determined once a year by the General Directorate of Mines based on
the average sales price of gold and silver quoted on the London
Metal Exchange. Royalty rate for Efemcukuru in 2019 was 7%.
Concentrate produced at the Efemcukuru mine is considered the
product of ore processing and is eligible for the 40% reduction in
the royalty rate.

 

 
3

 

 

Table 1: Royalties Calculation
 

 

No
environmental liabilities have been assumed with the
Project.
 

The
Project is fully permitted with no additional permits currently
required. All infrastructure required to operate under the reserves
disclosed in this report fall under the scope of the existing EIA
and operating license.
 

2.
History

 

Efemçukuru
deposit was discovered by Tüprag in 1992, while carrying
reconnaissance work in western Turkey. The area was noted as a base
metal and manganese occurrence on records of MTA (Turkish Mineral
Exploration Institute) with its old mine workings. Surface evidence
of these workings has been found in the form of shallow excavations
in the main Kestane Beleni Vein structure as well as
Kokarpınar Vein. After Tüprag’s discovery during
exploration and early mining stages ancient workings were further
identified and it was concluded that the deposit was probably mined
during the Roman dynasty two thousand years ago. Later, in early
1900’s a British Company owned the exploration rights and
done limited amount of surface work on Efemçukuru
deposit.
 

Between
1992 and 1997, Tüprag conducted extensive exploration work
including a magnetic survey and mapping, soil, rock chip, and
channel sampling and surface trenching, and in excess of 12,000 m
of HQ drilling. The exploration work identified a high-grade
vein-hosted gold system consisting of three separate ore zones
along the Kestane Beleni structure known as the SOS, MOS, and NOS.
The Kestane Beleni NW shoot was named as Mezarlık Tepe
earlier, but later work done in the area has shown that it is the
continuation and part of the same major Kestane Beleni structure. A
metallurgical testwork program was completed to support a
conceptual study in 1994 by Tüprag, described a 1,000 t/d
underground operation using CIL ore processing.

 

 
4

 

 

In
1998, Micon evaluated the geological model and confirmed a measured
and indicated resource of 1.87 Mt at 14.26 g/t, with an inferred
resource of 660,000 tonnes at 11.99 g/t Au. Later, in 2007 Wardrop
Engineering came up with a resource measured and indicated resource
of 3.88 Mt at 11.2 g/t, with an inferred resource of 753,000 tonnes
at 8.79 g/t Au.
 

Between
2006 and 2008, a 30,349 m HQ infill drilling program was undertaken
along the SOS, MOS, and NOS to further delineate the initial
identified resource. Additional diamond drilling was carried out
for hydrogeological testing in the vein structure as well as the
hanging wall and foot wall rocks.
 

Additional
drilling programs from 2008 to 2010 with step-outs to deeper levels
and along strike significantly increased the mineral resource
estimate and provided a base for calculating a mineral resource
estimate for the NOS. Drilling in 2011 and 2012 focused on a new
zone along strike from the NOS, referred to as Kestane Beleni
Northwest (KBNW), on down-dip extensions to the SOS and on the
Kokarpinar vein, a parallel vein system located approximately 400m
east of the Kestane Beleni vein. Exploration drilling programs in
2013 through 2017 tested the Kokarpinar vein over a 3 km strike
length, and identified resources in several discrete
shoots.
 

In 2014
and 2015, soil sampling was extended to cover the area west of the
Kestane Beleni vein. New vein targets hosted in phyllite were
identified in the Karabag and Dedebag areas as a result of this
work. The veins are particularly anomalous in silver.
 

In 2017
approximately 19,765 m of drilling was completed from the Kestane
Beleni Drift, to test the extent of the mineralization especially
at deeper parts of MOS and SOS-MOS transition area, and Kokarpinar
vein. In 2018, 22,867 m of exploration drilling was completed
targeting to expand the resource in the Kokarpinar vein and Bati
Veins located at the footwall of the Kestane Beleni vein which was
discovered later in the year. 4,944 m were also drilled to
delineate a mineralized zone at Kestane Beleni NW shoot. In 2019,
at Bati and Kokarpinar Veins a total of 26,084 m of exploration and
5,827 m of delineation drilling on Kokarpinar vein was
completed.
 

Eldorado
is continuously exploring on the property while mining Kestane
Beleni Ore Body since 2011. Table 2 summarizes the drilling at
different mineralized ore bearing structures at Efemçukuru.
Figure 2 shows the current drilling program in
progress.

 

 
5

 

 

Table 2: Summary of Drilling on the Efemçukuru
Deposit
 

 

Figure 2: Current Drilling Program Site
 

Permitting
for the Project was initiated in 1998 and an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) study was completed in May 2004. The EIA was
submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization in 2005,
and the environmental positive certificate was issued in September
of that year. Subsequent to completion of the EIA, a revision was
approved in December 2012, allowing for a larger disturbance
footprint and an increased mining production rate of 600,000 tonnes
per annum.

 

 
6

 

 

The
Efemçukuru mine started commercial production in June 2011,
and ore production ramped up from 435 kt to 520 kt with no major
changes on the operation.
 

3.
Geological
Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

 

(a)
Geological Setting
and Mineralization

 

The
Efemçukuru gold mine, an intermediate sulfidation epithermal
vein deposit, is hosted in the center of a broadly NE-SW trending
horst known as the Seferihisar Horst, which regionally exposes
basement rocks of the Bornova Flysch in the Menderes Massif. The
flysch predominantly comprises lower greenschist facies schist with
intercalations of mudstone, fine-grained sandstone, limestone and
marly sandstone. Bedding dip directions of the flysch sequence
across the entire Seferihisar Horst outline a broad, asymmetric
NE-trending syncline.
 

Local
geology consists of intermediate sulfidation veins hosted by a
low-grade metamorphic sequence of very fine-grained, black to dark
grey shales to phyllite and schist that have been locally folded
and intruded by rhyolite dikes. Mineralogy of the phyllites is
fine-grained quartz, feldspar, muscovite, chlorite and rare
biotite. The mineralogy of the schist is similar to the phyllite,
comprising strongly deformed quartz, feldspar, chlorite and
muscovite. A calc-silicate alteration, locally termed hornfels,
occurs in a broadly NW-trending pattern in the center of the
deposit area. The alteration commonly occurs as alternating dark
green and tan-grey bands within meta-sedimentary rocks. The contact
between calcsilicate alteration and phyllite is gradational.
Rhyolite occurs throughout as 1 to 5 m wide NW-striking dikes.
Contacts of the rhyolite dikes with the flysch units are usually
sharp.
 

Two
major broadly, NW-SE striking epithermal vein systems occur at
Efemçukuru, namely Kestane Beleni and Kokarpınar, with
strike extents of approximately 2 km and 4 km respectively. Both
veins cut the rhyolite dikes, calc-silicate alteration and
unaltered phyllite and schist. At surface, the veins are up to 5m
wide and occur as multi-phase, brecciated, banded
crustiform-colloform, and massive quartz-rhodochrosite veins. The
epithermal veins at within these vein systems contain multiple ore
shoots with zoned mineral and metal distributions and a complex
paragenesis. The 2 km long Kestane Beleni vein hosts the major gold
resource and reserve at Efemçukuru and comprises four ore
shoots: SOS, MOS, NOS, and KBNW. The Kestane Beleni vein has a
distinct mineralogical zonation with the proportions of
Mn‐silicate
and carbonate and sulfide vein material varying across the vein
system. Mn-rich vein assemblages are most abundant in the upper
portions of the SOS, whereas the sulfide content of the MOS and
NOS, particularly at depth, is much higher.
 

(b)
Deposit
Types

 

The
formation of the Efemçukuru gold deposit in western Anatolia
coincided with Miocene extension, magmatism and hydrothermal
activity including the formation of several other significant
gold-rich porphyry and epithermal deposits in the
region.1
In detail, Efemçukuru can be classified as an intermediate
sulfidation epithermal vein deposit due to its high-base metal
content and the Mn-rich nature of the veins, analogous to
intermediate-sulfidation epithermal veins of Mexico.2 The dominantly NE
dipping Efemçukuru veins formed within faults that had east
side down normal‐dextral (right
lateral) shear sense.

 

 

1 Baker, T., 2019,
Gold±Copper Endowment and Deposit Diversity in the West
Tethyan Magmatic Belt, Southeast Europe: Implications for
Exploration: Economic Geology, In Press.
 

2 Simmons, S.F., White, N.C., and John, D.A., 2005,
Geological characteristics of epithermal precious and base metal
deposits: Economic Geology 100th Anniversary Volume, p.
485–522.

 

 
7

 

 

Classic
porphyry-epithermal models commonly show epithermal deposits
forming on the periphery of higher temperature and deeper
magmatic-hydrothermal systems such as porphyry and/or skarn
deposits.3
The spatial and temporal distribution of rhyolite, high temperature
calc-silicate alteration, and intermediate sulfidation epithermal
veins support a magmatic-hydrothermal origin. Furthermore, detailed
carbon and oxygen isotope analysis of vein carbonates indicate a
mixed meteoric and magmatic source for the hydrothermal fluids and
strongly support degassing and boiling of magmatic fluids in the
generation of the main high grade epithermal veins.4
 

4.
Exploration

 

Prior
to modern exploration and mining, Turkish Mine Exploration
Institute records documented Efemçukuru as a manganese
occurrence. However, it is believed that Romans mined the deposit
in ancient times. Later, in the early 1900s, a British Company
owned the exploration rights and carried a limited amount of work
on the Efemçukuru deposit.
 

Modern
exploration activity at Efemçukuru began in 1992, when
Tüprag geologists recognized the exploration potential of the
area while conducting reconnaissance work in western Turkey.
Between 1992 and 1996, Tüprag conducted ground magnetic
surveys, rock chip and soil sampling, geological mapping and 6,000
metres of diamond-drilling focusing primarily on the Kestane Beleni
vein. This work identified high-grade gold mineralization in three
separate zones: the SOS, MOS, and NOS. Later exploration identified
the Kestane Beleni north west shoot (KBNW).
 

Infill
drilling in 1997 and 1998 provided the basis for an initial
resource estimate for the SOS and MOS, and a prefeasibility study
was completed in 1999. Drilling programs from 2006 to 2010
significantly increased the mineral resources along strike to the
north and downdip, and resulted in the first resource estimate for
the NOS. Drilling in 2011 and 2012 focused on a new zone, KBNW,
along strike from the NOS. Exploration since 2010 has focused on
the Kokarpinar vein located east of, and oriented subparallel to,
the Kestane Beleni vein. In 2018, the Bati veins were discovered in
the footwall to the Kestane Beleni vein. In total over 175,000 km
of drilling have been carried out at Efemçukuru (Table 3
and Figure
3).
 

Table 3: Exploration Activity Summary for Efemçukuru Mining
Area
 

 

3 Sillitoe, R.H., and
Hedenquist, J.W., 2003, Linkages between volcanotectonic settings,
ore-fluid compositions, and epithermal precious metal deposits:
Society of Economic Geologists, Special Publication 10, p.
315–343.
 

4 Boucher, K., 2016, The structural and fluid evolution of
the Efemçukuru epithermal gold deposit, western Turkey: M.Sc
thesis, Vancouver, BC, Canada, The University of British Columbia,
466p.

 

 
8

 

 

 

Figure 3: Exploration drilling at Efemçukuru
 

Geological
mapping at 1:5,000 scale was carried out over the Kestane Beleni
vein in the early stages of exploration. To date, a total area of
24 km² has been mapped at Efemçukuru, including detailed
geological mapping over the entire strike length of the Kestane
Beleni, Kokarpinar and Bati vein systems. In addition mapping of
the underground mine developments is ongoing. The surface and
underground mapping, in addition to drill hole logging combined
with structural data have been used to model the vein systems in 3D
and help define new mineralized targets around the
mine.
 

The
total of 5,004 rock chip samples have been collected across the
majority of outcropping veins on the property and 868 trench
samples were obtained from 20 trenches. These data have helped
prioritize drill targets but have not been used in the resource
estimations.
 

Nearly
150 line km of ground geophysics have been conducted on the
property to assist in identifying the epithermal vein systems
(Table 3). This includes ground magnetic and IP and gradient IP
surveys.
 

Mine
exploration from underground has helped identify new mineralized
targets and extensions at Efemçukuru. Targets include the
down-dip extensions of the SOS and the MOS that have been assessed
through underground exploration drilling from a hangingwall
development named the Kestane Beleni HW drift. In 2017-2018, 9,440
m of diamond drilling in 28 holes was completed from the drift and
extended gold mineralization down to 200 m RL. In 2019 mine
exploration drilling has focused on the deeper parts of the Bati
vein in the footwall to Kestane Beleni.

 

 
9

 

 

5.
Drilling

 

The
Efemçukuru gold mine has seen numerous diamond drill campaigns
since 1992. A total of 903 exploration and resource delineation
drillholes, drilled from surface and underground locations and
totaling 216,000 m, have been drilled to 2019. Infill drilling
programs, designed to increase the geologic confidence in gold
grade distribution and mineralization contacts just ahead of
mining, generally drill 30,000 m annually from underground
stations. These programs also convert indicated resources to
measured resources.
 

Standard
logging and sampling conventions were used to capture information
from the drill core. The core was logged in detail onto paper
logging sheets, and the data were then entered into the project
database. Specific gravity measurements were made on mineralized
intervals as well as adjacent wall rock on each side. The core was
photographed before being sampled.
 

Core
recovery in the mineralized units was very good, averaging 97% for
over 92% of core intervals in the mineralized zones. The relatively
small number of poorer recovery intervals should have negligible
impact on the Efemçukuru mineral resource
estimate.
 

6.
Sampling,
Analysis and Data Verification

 

All
samples from the Efemçukuru gold mine drilling are assayed for
gold by 30 g fire assay with an AA finish for multi-element
determination using fusion digestion and inductively coupled plasma
spectroscopy (ICP) analysis. Samples that returned assays greater
than 10 ppm were re-assayed by fire assay with a gravimetric
finish. Eldorado employs a comprehensive quality assurance and
quality control (QA/QC) program as part of the assaying procedure,
involving regular insertion of Certified Reference Materials
(CRMs), duplicates and blank samples. Site geologists regularly
monitor the performance of CRMs, blanks and duplicates as the assay
results arrive on site.
 

All
collected and assayed data were imported into Efemçukuru
mine’s database. An in-house interface was used for data
entry. This interface uses numerous data verification and
cross-checking protocols to ensure the quality of the data being
entered. A “quarantine” system is in place to hold
information until validated and checked. Release can only be made
by the database administrator. Assay data are imported directly
from the laboratory’s csv file. Drilling data such as collar
surveys, down hole surveys, assays and logged lithologies are
routinely cross checked against original source files.
Discrepancies are rare but when observed, immediately corrected. As
a result of these checks and balances, the data supporting the
Efemçukuru resource work are sufficiently free of error and
adequate for resource estimation.
 

In
Eldorado’s opinion, the QA/QC results demonstrate that the
Efemçukuru mine’s assay database is sufficiently
accurate and precise for the resource estimatio
 

7.

Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testwork

 

The Efemçukuru concentrator has been successfully processing
ore from Efemçukuru mine since commissioning in mid-2011. The
original process flowsheet was designed to produce gold doré
from the gravity concentrate and from the gold-containing sulfide
minerals flotation concentrate. However, production of gravity
concentrate has been considerably lower than what was estimated in
the feasibility study (expected 30 % recovery) and thus, the
process flowsheet was revised in 2018 to produce only flotation
concentrate for sale. This had no effect on overall recovery
because gravity concentrate was recovered from the flotation
concentrate.
 

Metallurgical tests have been performed using variability ore
samples (8 samples) and composite samples representing south ore
shoot (SOS) and middle ore shoot (MOS) during feasibility study.
Process flowsheet was designed based on this testwork program.
Another metallurgical testwork program was undertaken by Wardell
Armstrong International (WAI) in 2016 to update the information
about metallurgical characteristics and flotation behaviour of main
ore types from SOS, NOS and MOS.
 

8.
Mineral
Resources Estimates

 

The
mineral resource estimates for Efemcukuru consist of 3D block
models formed on the Kestane Beleni, Kokarpinar and Batı
epithermal vein systems. Creation of these models utilized a
commercial mine planning software package (Geovia Gems). Currently,
mining only occurs within the Kestane Beleni vein system. Gold
mineralization at Efemcukuru, primarily occurring in the principal
veins, can only be confirmed through assays. Domains to control
grade interpolation are, by necessity, grade based. For the
Efemcukuru mineralization, creation of the modeling domains used a
2.0 g/t Au grade threshold and general vein geometry. Risk posed by
extreme gold grades were examined. The examination showed a risk
does exist and was mitigated by a series of assay gold grade caps
(40 to 200 g/t). Prior to grade interpolation, the assay data were
composited into 1 m fixed length composites.

 

 
10

 

 

Modelling
consisted of grade interpolation by ordinary kriging for Kestane
Beleni domains and inverse distance weighting to the second power
(ID) in the remainder of the zones where data was too limited to
create correlograms. Nearest-neighbour (NN) grades were also
interpolated for validation purposes. No grades were interpolated
outside the modeling domains. The search ellipsoids were oriented
preferentially to the orientation of the vein in the respective
domains. A two-pass approach was instituted for interpolation. The
first pass required a grade estimate to include composites from a
minimum of two holes from the same estimation domain. The second
pass allowed a single hole to place a grade estimate in any block
that was uninterpolated from the first pass. The gold model was
validated by visual inspection, checks for global bias and local
trends and for appropriate levels of smoothing (change-of-support
checks).
 

The
mineral resources of the Efemçukuru mine were classified using
logic consistent with the CIM definitions referred to in NI 43-101.
The mineralization of the project satisfies sufficient criteria to
be classified into measured, indicated, and inferred mineral
resource categories.
 

Efemcukuru
mine mineral resources, as of December 31, 2019, are as follows,
reported at a 2.5 g/t Au cutoff grade:

 

Table 4: Efemçukuru Gold Mine Mineral Reserves as of December
31, 2019

 

 

9.
Mineral
Reserves

 

The
Efemçukuru has produced 3.7 Mt of ore at an average grade of
7.6 g/t Au as of December 2019, using combination of drift and fill
and longhole open stoping methods. A planning cut-off grade (COG)
of 3.68 g/t Au was calculated based on Eldorado’s mineral
reserves gold price of $1250/oz, the 2020 budget costs and a steady
state life of mine (LOM) production profile. The 2020 budget costs
are supported by 2019 actual production costs. Use of the Deswik
Stope Optimizer software identified potentially mineable material
in the form of mining shapes for both drift & fill (DAF) and
longhole open stoping (LHOS) mining methods. Dilution was captured
as internal dilution (mining shape) and planning (overbreak). The
latter equalled 16%. A mining recovery factor of 96% was also
implemented. Both of these factors are defended by regular
reconciliation and stope closure exercises.
 

The
mineral reserves of the Efemçukuru Project were classified
using logic consistent with the CIM definitions referred to in the
National Instrument 43-101-Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects (NI 43-101). The mineralization of the project satisfies
sufficient criteria to be classified into proven and probable
mineral reserves. Only measured and indicated mineral resources
were converted, using appropriate modifying factors, to mineral
reserves. The mineral reserves are inclusive to the mineral
resources.
 

Mineral
reserves for the Efemçukuru deposit were prepared by Eldorado
Gold and Efemçukuru technical services staff. The mineral
reserve estimate is summarized in Table 5 and has an effective date
of December 31, 2019.

 

 
11

 

 

Table 5: Efemçukuru Mineral Reserves Effective December 31,
2019
 

 

10.
Mining
Operations

 

Efemçukuru
mine employs small-scale underground mechanized mining methods to
exploit the narrow, high- grade, subvertical mineralization. The
Projected mine life is 7 years at current production rate of
510,000 t/yr.
 

The
current mine layout has the following features:
 

●
Four declines (SOS,
MOS, NOS and KBNW), each covering approximately 400 m strike
extent.

 

●
Two surface portals
(south and north).

 

●
One surface
conveyor adit for conveying crushed ore to the surface crushed ore
bins.

 

●
Four primary
ventilation surface exhausts (south, central, north and northwest)
and one fresh air raise for NOS.

 

●
Link drives connect
declines and serve as a secondary egress from the
mine.

 

The
mine plan is based on the combination of drift-and-fill and
longhole-open-stoping methods. Both DAF and LHOS stopes are mined
concurrently from multiple production blocks to fulfil production
requirements. Overall, the production blocks are mined in a
top-down sequence, but stopes within a production block are mined
bottom-up (overhand).
 

A
geotechnical domain model has been developed and updated for
geotechnical logging of exploration and stope definition drilling
information. At Efemçukuru the rock mass has been classified
by the widely used Q-System by adopting characterization logging
values to determine Q input parameters. The selection of DAF and
LHOS mining methods is primarily based on the orebody geometry
(width and dip) and the expected ground conditions determined
through geotechnical assessment. Regular geotechnical assessments
indicate that the current mining method, stope sizes, and mining
sequence will not change significantly change over the
LOM.
 

The
mine operates seven days a week and three shifts a day. This annual
schedule is equivalent to 365 days per year of
operation.
 

11.
Mineral
Processing and Recovery Methods

 

The
Efemçukuru operation is an underground mine with facilities
consisting of an underground crushing plant, milling and flotation
plant, filtration and paste backfill plant, and water treatment
plant, along with ancillary buildings. The process plant produces a
gold-containing bulk sulphide rich flotation concentrate. Major
sulfide minerals comprise pyrite, sphalerite and galena. Small
percentage of chalcopyrite is also present. Major gangue minerals
consist of quartz and manganese-minerals. Gold is generally
fine-grained and primarily associated with pyrite and galena.
Pyrite and sphalerite generally show good liberation, with
improving liberation for the fine size fractions. Galena also shows
improving liberation for the fine size fractions.

 

 
12

 

 

Optimum
primary grind size was determined to be 80% passing 63 µm. The
reagents used in flotation were; sodium bisulfite (NaHS) as
sulfidizing agent, copper sulfate (CuSO4.5H2O) as activator,
xanthate (SIBX) as collector, S-8045 as promoter and OrePrep F-549
as frother. In most cases, gold recovery is proportional to sulfur
recovery and has averaged about 93 to 94% in recent
years.
 

Run-of-mine
ore is crushed underground and transferred to two ore storage bins
on surface via a conveyor. The two ore storage bins allow for
blending of different ore types feeding the process plant feed to
target a desirable gold/sulfur ratio and reduce contents of penalty
elements for concentrate sales.
 

The
comminution circuit consists of a SAG mill operated in closed
circuit with a pebble crusher, a ball mill operated in closed
circuit with hydrocyclones and a flash flotation cell.
 

Ball
mill discharge is treated in a flash cell to recover the
fast-floating liberated sulfide mineral particles and prevent
overgrinding of gold containing particles. Overflow from
hydrocyclones is sent to a rougher/scavenger flotation
bank.
 

Flotation
circuit consists of a rougher/scavenger flotation bank and two
parallel cleaner flotation banks. Concentrates from flash flotation
cell and the first two cells of the rougher/scavenger bank are
combined and upgraded in cleaner bank 1. Rougher cells 3-6
concentrate are treated in cleaner bank 2. Concentrates from
cleaner banks 1 and 2 are combined and sent to the final
concentrate thickener.
 

Underflow
of the concentrate thickener is filtered and the filtered
concentrate is stored in big bags for shipping. The tailings are
sent to a tailings thickener. The final tails are filtered. A
portion of the tailings is used in the underground paste backfill
plant, and the rest is dry stacked in the TSF.
 

Column
flotation as the third cleaner flotation stage increases
concentrate quality and reduces concentrate tonnage with negligible
gold recovery loss. A project was initiated in late 2019 for design
and installation of column flotation cells in the circuit. Based on
mass balance and simulation studies performed using plant surveys
and pilot scale column flotation tests, two flotation column cells
of 1.8 m (diameter) x 8 m (height) will be installed and
commissioned in 2020. The two column flotation cells can be
operated in parallel or in series as the third cleaner flotation
stage depending on plant requirements.
 

12.
Infrastructure,
Permitting and Compliance Activities

 

The
Project infrastructure is well established with no upgrades
anticipated for the existing access road, power or water
supplies.
 

Management
of the site water will use the existing ponds and an additional
pond at the tailings management facility (TMF). The water treatment
plant is appropriately sized to include the new facilities. The
constructed areas will be sloped and ditched appropriately to tie
into the existing systems.
 

Existing
ancillary buildings will continue to be utilized such as the
warehouse and administration buildings. A new change room facility
will be installed for the personnel that will be working in the
mill.
 

Tüprag
conducted baseline studies throughout the early 2000’s prior
to development. An EIA was submitted in 2005 and was approved with
Environmental Positive Certificate being granted in September 2005.
Since mining began in 2011, Efemçukuru mine operations have
routinely collected environmental data outlined in the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and submitted data to the
relevant government agencies.

 

 
13

 

 

Tüprag
submitted an application for revisions to the EIA and received
approvals for the revisions in 2012 and 2015 to allow for larger
facilities. Amendments to the Environmental Licenses were requested
and granted in 2012, 2015, 2017, and 2018.
 

The
process of obtaining the necessary permits for a mining operation
in Turkey is similar to the European Union EIA Directive
process.
 

Table 6
lists key Project permits obtained prior and during mining to date,
including the date and the governmental authority that issued
them:
 

Table 6: Permits Obtained Prior to Mining and During Mining at
Efemçukuru
 

 

 
14

 

 

 

13.
Capital
and Operating Costs

 

Efemçukuru
is fully constructed and operating, and actual costs form the basis
of future operating and sustaining cost estimates. All costs are
expressed in US dollars.
 

Mining
sustaining capital costs include mine development, paste backfill
borehole development, purchase of additional equipment, equipment
leasing costs and health and safety initiatives (Table
7).
 

Additional
growth capital cost is included for the supply and install of a
column flotation system to improve the concentrate quality. The
column cells will be commissioned in 2020.

 

 
15

 

 

Table 7: Capital Cost Summary
 

 

The
underground mine operating costs were estimated based on actual
2019 operating costs and 2020 budget estimates that allow for
maintaining a steady state production profile.
 

The
underground operating costs include all consumables (ground
support, explosives, services, cement, aggregates and fuel) and
equipment required to meet the development and production schedule
objectives. The operating unit costs for mobile equipment and fuel
consumption rates were largely obtained from historic mine data.
Labour requirements were developed to support the operation and
maintenance of the fleet and for the general operation of the
underground mine. All these estimates are in line with manpower
levels.
 

General
and administrative costs are based on current personnel
requirements and salaries. Adjustments have been made if known
changes, such as increasing manpower, are required in future.
General supplies are based on the current operating
experience.
 

Process
operating costs were based on current annual consumption of process
reagents, major wear parts, and utilities. Budget quotations were
obtained for supply of all significant consumables and utilities.
Power consumption is based on 2019 operating
experience.
 

Unit
rates representative to a steady state peak production profile are
summarized in Table 8.

 

 
16

 

 

Table 8: Operating Cost Summary
 

 

14.
Economic
Analysis

 

An
economic analysis of the Efemçukuru mine shows a 6 year mine
life yielding an undiscounted cumulative cashflow of US$341.2 M and
an NPV of US$278.3 M are estimated (pre-tax) based on the
following:
 

●
Discount rate of
5%.

 

●
Development cost of
US$2,154 per metre of waste development.

 

●
Operating cost of
US$38.05 per ore tonne.

 

●
Total gold recovery
of 87.5 % after processing, smelting and refining.

 

●
Process plant
throughput of 510,000 tonnes per annum

 

●
Gold price of
US$1,400 per ounce.

 

●
Silver price of
US$18.00 per ounce.

 

●
Transport and
refining cost of US$118.48 per mined Au ounce.

 

●
Capital costs
outlined in Table 7

 

The
economic model was subjected to a sensitivity analysis to determine
the effects of changing metal prices and capital and operating
expenditures on the Project financial returns (Figure 4 and
Figure
5).

 

 
17

 

 

 

Figure 4: LOM Plan NPV Sensitivities based on Cost
Variation
 

 

Figure 5: LOM Plan NPV Sensitivities based on Au Price
Variations
 

The
Project is most sensitive to gold price. A 40% reduction in the
gold price results in zero NPV. The next most-sensitive project
variable is the operating cost. An increase of 40% in the operating
costs alone does not significantly impact the viability of the
Project, with a resultant NPV of approximately US$235
M.
 

15.
Exploration,
Development and Production

 

Mine
planning by the Efemçukuru team have generated extended mine
designs with the inferred resources beyond the beyond the proven
and probable material stated in the Efemçukuru Technical
Report. The expanded reserve adds over another year of operation.
Exploration will continue in an effort to convert the inferred
reserves.

 

 
18

 

 

The LOM
plan shows that Efemçukuru has a production life of almost 7
years and can sustain a production rate of 510 K tpa until the end
of 2025, based on the current mineral reserves.
 

The
mine has a strong long-term potential for increased mine life
through ongoing exploration activities. In this regard, the
strategic focus will continue to be aimed at exploration and infill
drilling particularly for Kokarpinar and Batı Vein
resources.
 

It is
concluded Efemçukuru has a solid working history and that the
work completed in the technical study indicate that the mineral
resource and mineral reserve estimates and Project economics are
sufficiently defined to indicate that the Project remains
technically and economically viable.
 

The
technical study outlines a solid technical and economical
assessment for the Efemcukuru mining operation. It is recommended
to proceed studies to further optimize and improve
operations.
 

●
Continue with
drilling programs to seek ancillary vein systems near strike and
other targets in the region.

 

●
Study narrow vein
mining techniques for thinner structures.

 

●
Investigate ore
sorting and dense media separation to minimize
dilution.

 

●
Continue studies
for process solutions to upgrade the gold concentrate.

 

Kişladağ Gold Mine
 

Eldorado
owns and operates the Kişladağ gold mine in Turkey
through its wholly owned Turkish subsidiary, Tüprag Metal
Madencilik Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi (Tüprag).
Eldorado has prepared a technical report of the Kişladağ
gold mine in support of a material change in ore processing
relative to the existing NI 43-101 Technical Report whose Effective
Date was March 16, 2018.5 After a period of
successful test work on extended gold leaching, the
Kışladağ mine has recently returned to being a heap
leaching operation. This report describes the new metallurgy and
field leaching procedures that form the basis of updated economics
of the operation and its new mineral reserves.
 

Information
and data for this report originated from the
Kışladağ gold mine. The work entailed review of
pertinent geological, mining, process and metallurgical data in
sufficient detail to support the preparation of the
Kişladağ Technical Report.
 

The
qualified persons responsible for preparing the Kişladağ
Technical Report as defined in NI 43-101 and in compliance with
43-101F1 are David Sutherland, P.Eng., Sean McKinley, P.Geo.,
Stephen Juras, Ph.D., P.Geo., Richard Miller, P.Eng. and Paul
Skayman, FAusIMM, whom are all employees of Eldorado. All of the
qualified persons have visited the Kışladağ gold
mine.
 

1.
Property
Description, Location and Access

 

The
Kişladağ gold mine has been an operating open pit mine in
commercial production since 2006 with surface facilities consisting
of a crushing plant, heap leach pads and an adsorption, desorption,
regeneration (ADR) plant, along with ancillary
buildings.
 

5 Eldorado Gold Corporation, 2018, Technical Report,
Kışladağ Milling Project, Turkey, NI 43-101
Technical Report, March 2018.

 

 
19

 

 

Kişladağ
is located in west-central Turkey lying 180 km to the west of the
Aegean coast between Izmir and Ankara. The Project site lies 35 km
southwest of the city of Uşak, which has a greater area
population of approximately 370,000 inhabitants and near the
village of Gümüşkol. The mine site sits on the
western edge of the Anatolian Plateau at an elevation of
approximately 1,000 m, in gentle rolling topography. The climate in
this region is arid with warm dry summers and mild wet
winters.
 

There
are no permanent water bodies in the area and water supply is
limited to ephemeral streams and shallow seasonal stock ponds.
Water is supplied to the mine from various well fields with a
capacity of approximately 280 m3 per hour. A dam was constructed in
partnership with the water authority in 2016 and is connected to
the site to serve as an additional reservoir to support
operations.
 

The
Turkish Electricity Distribution Corporation provides power to the
site via two transmission lines from the Uşak industrial zone,
154 kV (27.7km) and 34.5 kV (25km).
 

The
Kişladağ Project land position consists of a single
operating licence, number 85995, with a total area of 17,192 ha.
According to Turkish mining law, Tüprag retains the right to
explore and develop any mineral resources contained within the
licence area provided fees and taxes are maintained. The licence
was issued on April 9, 2003 and renewed on May 10, 2012 and is
currently set to expire on May 10, 2032. Duration of mining licence
can be extended if the mine production is still going on at the end
of licence period.
 

Based
on current Turkish legislation, an annual royalty is paid to the
Government of Turkey, calculated on the basis of a sliding scale
according to the average LME gold price during the calendar year,
less some costs associated with ore haulage, mineral processing and
administration. At the current budgeted gold price of $1,400/oz Au,
a 7.0% royalty is in effect, with an allowance for in-country
processing of 40%, hence reducing the royalty rate to 4.2%.
Allowable deductions for processing and haulage costs further
reducing the effective rate to approximately 2.8%. The corporate
income tax rate applicable to profits of Kişladağ in
2018-2020 was 22% %. From 2021 onwards, the effective tax rate is
expected to return to 20%.
 

2.
History

 

Eldorado
acquired the Kişladağ property from Gencor Limited of
South Africa in July 1996, as part of their portfolio of assets in
Brazil and Turkey. The original prospect was identified by
Tüprag geologists in 1989 from satellite image interpretations
and confirmed through ground reconnaissance and geochemical
sampling programs.
 

Since
1996, Eldorado’s exploration activities at Kişladağ
have focused primarily on the zone known locally as
Gökgöz Tepe, using principally geochemical soil and
rockchip sampling, coupled with geological mapping. On the basis of
this work, a gold anomaly was identified along the north slope of
Gökgöz Tepe extending approximately 1,200 m on strike by
600 m wide. This work was followed in 1997 by 2,745 m of trench
sampling, and 1,638 m of percussion drilling, which confirmed the
mineralization in the shallow subsurface down to approximately 50 m
over the footprint of the soil anomaly.
 

In
1998, a six hole HQ (96 mm outer diameter (OD) and 63.5 mm inner
diameter (ID)) diamond drilling program (1,059 m) probing the main
anomaly target intersected gold mineralization to depths of greater
than 250 m and effectively confirmed the potential for large low
grade bulk tonnage gold deposit. In 1999, an additional 5,000 m of
HQ core drilling and 1,600 m of trenching extended the strike
length and depth of the deposit. Based on the trenching, percussion
drilling and core drilling data available to that date, Micon
International (Micon) and Eldorado identified a measured and
indicated resource of 42.8 Mt of 1.49 g/t, plus an inferred
resource of 31.1 Mt at 1.35 g/t (all based on a 0.8 g/t cutoff
grade).

 

 
20

 

 

In
2000, a reverse circulation (RC) drill program totaling 7,580 m
(and 577 m of diamond drill hole (DDH)) led to a revised resource
estimate and a significant increase in the deposit’s
contained metal content. That year, Micon reported a measured and
indicated resource of 125.97 Mt for the deposit at an average grade
of 1.20 g/t Au. This is equivalent to 4.85 Moz of contained gold
(using a cutoff grade of 0.4 g/t Au).
 

In
2002, a combined total of 10,582 m (RC, DDH and Percussion) was
completed.
 

In 2003
to 2004, the drilling campaigns continued and a total of 8,499 m
(RC and DDH) were drilled including 1,384 m for open pit
geotechnical purposes. These geotechnical holes were also assayed
and results were used for resource-reserve calculations later
on.
 

Metallurgical
test work initiated during 1999 and 2000 by Eldorado indicated that
the ore would be amenable to heap leaching, and in 1999 Eldorado
was granted a Site Selection Permit by the Turkish authorities for
a gold mining operation at the Kişladağ Project site.
Early receipt of this permit was made possible by the high level of
support the Project has received from within the Uşak province
as well as at the central government level.
 

In 2001
Eldorado commissioned a prefeasibility study with Kilborn
Engineering Pacific Limited (Kilborn), based on the concept of
recovering gold by heap leaching. This study considered an
operation to treat 3.4 Mtpa of material based on an owner operated
mining fleet and a three-stage crushing circuit generating a final
crush size of 100% minus 8 mm. The objective of this approach was
to minimize capital expenditure in the early years and allow for
expansion to develop the total resource at a later date. Initial
capital cost was estimated to be US$47.4 M with a cash operating
cost estimated at US$154/oz and an average annual gold production
of 103,600 troy ounces.
 

Subsequent
to issuing the prefeasibility study, Kilborn was asked to review
the Project conditions in light of devaluation of the Turkish
currency and to incorporate contract mining and utilizing used
crushing equipment. An Addendum to the prefeasibility study was
issued in December 2001, presenting a revised initial capital cost
estimate of US$29.6 M and a cash operating cost estimate of
US$149/oz.
 

In
April 2003, a bankable feasibility study was completed by Hatch.
The study envisaged a staged increase in production over a five
year period from an initial production target of 5 Mtpa increasing
to 10 Mtpa in Year 5. An optimization study was subsequently
completed in July 2003, which generated a total life of mine
capital cost estimate for the project of approximately US$138.5
million.
 

A
technical report with a proven and probable mineral reserves equal
to 115 Mt at a grade of 1.23 g/t Au (oxide cut-off 0.35 g/t Au;
sulphide cut-off 0.50 g/t Au; gold price – US$325/oz) was
declared and supported by Hatch.6 Subsequent to the
Hatch report additional drilling information was received and a new
resource report was completed with declared measured and indicated
mineral resources of 215 Mt grading 1.04 g/t Au (0.40 g/t Au
cut-off) and supported by Micon.7
 

Construction
work started with access road construction in 2004. Work continued
into 2006 with leach pad area preparation, construction of
crushing, screening and ADR plants and ancillary buildings. Open
pit production started in 2005. All construction work for the first
phase was completed in early 2006 and commercial production was
declared in July 2006.
 

6 Hatch, 2003,
Technical Report Kışladağ Project, Feasibility
Study, NI 43-101 Technical Report, March 2003.
 

7 Micon, 2003, 2003 Update of Resources,
Kışladağ Project, Usak, Turkey, NI 43-101 Technical
Report, September 2003.

 

 
21

 

 
 

 
 

Expansion
of the crushing-screening plant to 10 Mtpa followed commercial
production, with completion of the additional capacity in April
2007.
 

The
operation was shut down in August 2007 after the Environmental
Positive Certificate for Kişladağ had been challenged by
a third party. The injunction was lifted in February 2008 and
operation resumed in March 2008.
 

Owner
operation in the pit replaced the mine contractor in September
2008.
 

Kişladağ
operations further expanded during 2010 and in February 2011 the
plant throughput increased to a rate of 12.5 Mtpa, with further
optimizations to a rate of 13.1 Mtpa achieved in 2015 and
2016.
 

In
2015, detailed engineering was largely completed to expand the
Kişladağ operations to process 20 Mtpa. The proposed
design was to add a new 7.5 Mt/a, three-stage crushing circuit and
a new primary crushing system to feed the new and existing plants.
As a result of falling gold prices and other corporate capital
projects the project was indefinitely cancelled.
 

In
anticipation of the expansion, several infrastructure improvement
projects were completed, notably, a new 154 kV substation with the
capacity of 100 MVA and additional mining equipment.
 

In 2017
Eldorado completed an internal concept study followed by an
internal scoping study to assess options for a milling circuit.
These studies were supported by a large metallurgical testwork
program. A prefeasibility level design of the milling circuit in
February 2018 to support to support a 43-101 Technical Report
published March 2018. The report supported furthering the
engineering and basic engineering for the mill was completed
December 2018.
 

Crushing
operations were suspended in April 2018 to conserve ore for milling
and further evaluate the future options for the mine site. Heap
leaching of existing placed material continued during this period.
Prior to the suspension, a decision was taken to place some high
grade material on a lined section of the pad, to study the overall
recovery without the effect of the large leach pad, which was
making metallurgical control difficult. This material leached as
expected, and after 120 days, the predicted 42% recovery was
achieved. Extended leaching and rest periods with no irrigation
allowed us to recover nearly 60% of the gold with a leach cycle
that was extended to 250 days. This formed the basis for the
extended testwork program of extended time column tests and the
longer-term IBRT test.
 

3.
Geological
Drilling and Sampling

 

Western
Turkey is host to several major porphyry and epithermal gold
deposits including the Kişladağ porphyry gold mine,
Efemçukuru intermediate sulfidation gold mine and Ovaçik
low sulfidation gold mine. The gold-rich region is part of the
Western Tethyan orogeny defined by a series of magmatic belts that
have a strike length of over 3,600 km extending from Romania
through Turkey, Iran, and continuing to the east through Pakistan
into Central and Eastern Asia. The magmatic belts in Turkey trend
younger in age north to south. In the north, Cretaceous to
Paleogene subduction-related arc magmatism along the Pontide range
transitions to post-collision, extension related Neogene magmatism
in central and western Anatolia.8 Deposits associated
with the magmatism include a wide variety of porphyry, epithermal
and sediment-hosted base and precious metal deposits.9
 

8 Agostini, S.,
Doglioni, C., Innocenti, F., Manetti, P., and Tonarini, S., 2010,
On the geodynamics of the Aegean rift: Tectonophysics, v. 488, p.
7-21.
 

9 Richards, J. P.,
2015, Tectonic, magmatic, and metallogenic evolution of the Tethyan
orogen: From subduction to collision: Ore Geology Reviews, v. 70,
p. 323–345.

 

 
22

 

 

Kışladağ
gold mine is a gold-only porphyry deposit located in the eroded
Miocene Beydağı stratovolcano in western Turkey. The gold
mineralization occurs mainly within monzonite intrusive rocks
emplaced within and above pre-Cretaceous Menderes metamorphic
rocks. Deformation within the Beydağı volcanic sequence
is minor in and around the deposit. Stratigraphic layering dips
gently radially outward from the eroded center of the volcanic
system, with no evidence of fault-related tilting.
 

The
Kışladağ deposit is hosted by a suite of nested
subvolcanic monzonite porphyry intrusions that are subdivided into
Intrusions #1, #2, #2A, and #3. Intrusion #1 is the oldest, and
generally the best mineralized phase. It forms the core of the
system and is cut by the younger porphyritic intrusions. It is an
E-W oriented elongate elliptical body (~1,300 m x ~500 m), and in
the subsurface has a sill-like form intruding along the contact of
the basement and volcanic package. At depth, the main body extends
beyond the current limit of drilling (~1,000 m).
 

Alteration
comprises an overlapping zoned system that contains a high
temperature potassic core, an outer white mica-tourmaline zone and
pervasive argillic alteration. The latter is particularly dominant
in the western upper levels and throughout much of the surrounding
volcanic sequence. Within the deposit, the largest zone of intense
kaolinite alteration is focused in Intrusion #2A and a second
smaller zone is focused in the southwest corner of the pit within
Intrusion #1. Montmorillonite commonly overprints biotite in the
potassic alteration zone. Porphyry-style sheeted to stockwork
quartz veins occur with the potassic and white mica-tourmaline
alteration zones.
 

Gold is
very fine grained at Kışladağ. Gold in the argillic
alteration occurs primarily with pyrite whereas in the white mica
tourmaline alteration the gold grains occur with pyrite and
muscovite. In the potassic samples, the majority of gold is hosted
in K-feldspar.
 

Several
drilling campaigns by both core drilling and RC drilling took place
from 1998 through 2016 for a total of 198,000 m of which 38% was
drilled in 2007 to 2010 and 26% in 2014 to 2016. It is this later
drilling, mostly core holes, that provided information to enable
upgrading of the mineral resource.
 

Diamond
drilling in Kışladağ was done with wire line core
rigs and mostly of HQ size. Drillers placed the core into wooden
core boxes with each box holding about 4 m of HQ core. Geology and
geotechnical data are collected from the core and core is
photographed (wet) before sampling. SG measurements were done
approximately every 5 m. Core recovery in the mineralized units was
excellent, usually between 95% and 100%. The entire lengths of the
diamond drill holes were sampled (sawn in half by diamond saw). The
core library for the Kışladağ deposit is kept in
core storage facilities on site.
 

Samples
were prepared at Eldorado’s in-country preparation facility
near Çanakkale in north- western Turkey according to the
following protocol:
 

●
The entire sample
was crushed to 90% minus 3 mm (or 75% minus 2 mm).

 

●
A 1 kg subsample
was split from the crushed, minus 3 mm sample and pulverized to 90%
minus 75 µm (200 mesh). Prior to 2014, splitting was done by a
riffle unit. After 2014 a Boyd rotary splitter was
utilized.

 

●
A 110 g subsample
was split off by taking multiple scoops from the pulverized 75
µm sample.

 

 
23

 

 

The 110
g subsample was placed in a kraft paper envelope, sealed with a
folded wire or glued top, and prepared for shipping. The rest of
the pulverized sample was stored in plastic bags for later use.
All equipment was flushed with barren
material and blasted with compressed air between each sample
preparation procedure. Regular screen tests were done on the
crushed and pulverized material to ensure that sample preparation
specifications were being met.
 

A
Standard Reference Material (SRM), a duplicate and a blank sample
were inserted into the sample stream at every 8th sample. From there
the sample pulps were shipped to the ALS Chemex Analytical
Laboratory in North Vancouver until April 2015 and Bureau Veritas
(formerly Acme Labs) in Ankara since then. All samples were assayed
for gold by 30 g fire assay with an AA finish and for multi-element
determination using fusion digestion and ICP analysis.
 

Quality Assurance
 

Assay
results are provided to Eldorado in electronic format and as paper
certificates. Upon receipt of assay results, values for SRMs and
field blanks are tabulated and compared to the established
pass-fail criteria as follows:
 

●
Automatic batch
failure if the SRM result is greater than the round-robin limit of
three standard deviations.

 

●
Automatic batch
failure if two consecutive SRM results are greater than two
standard deviations on the same side of the mean.

 

●
Automatic batch
failure if the field blank result is over 0.03 g/t Au.

 

If a
batch fails, it is re-assayed until it passes. Override allowances
are made for barren batches. Batch pass/failure data are tabulated
on an ongoing basis, and charts of individual reference material
values with respect to round-robin tolerance limits are
maintained.
 

Since
the start of production in 2006, the entire drillhole database was
reviewed in detail. Checks were made to the original assay
certificates and survey data. Any discrepancies were corrected and
incorporated into the current resource database. Eldorado therefore
concludes that the data supporting the Kışladağ
resource work are sufficiently free of error to be adequate for
estimation. In Eldorado’s opinion, the QA/QC results
demonstrate that the Kışladağ assay database is
sufficiently accurate and precise for resource
estimation.
 

4.
Exploration

 

Eldorado
has not undertaken any recent exploration works at the
Kışladağ Project.
 

5.
Mineral
Processing

 

The
Kişladağ Project is an open pit mine and heap leach
operation with a three-stage crushing plant. The process plant will
continue to operate as a three-stage crushing plant but the third
stage will be replaced by a high pressure grinding rolls circuit
(HPGR). Ore is conveyed to a leach pad and irrigated with cyanide
solution, solution is recovered and processed in an ADR and
electrowinning circuit to produce gold doré. The crushing
circuit will process 12.6 Mt of ore per year resulting in
approximately 160,000 ounces of gold produced
annually.

 

 
24

 

 

To
investigate the metallurgical response of remaining mineralization
in the deposit, a large testwork program has been conducted at the
on-site metallurgical laboratory involving gold recovery tests on
118 bulk samples of PQ diamond drill cores.
 

Testing
by 2m column test revealed that the gold leach cycle time
requirement has increased with depth in the open pit. Whereas
previous, mineralization required approximately 90 to 120 days of
irrigation to meet “maximum” gold extraction, the
deeper mineralization will require approximately 300 days of
irrigation. The columns testwork results were modeled to create a
3D recovery model to supplement and use with the gold grade
model.
 

An
ancillary testing program involved investigation of implementing
HPGR (High Pressure Grinding Rolls) technology.
 

6.
Mineral
Resources Estimates

 

The
estimates were made from a 3D block model utilizing commercial mine
planning software. Projects limits, in UTM coordinates, are 686295
to 688655 East, 4260615 to 4262955 North, and 0 to +1110 m
elevation. Block model cell size was 20 m east x 20 m north x 10 m
high.
 

Eldorado
used new data from the mining and the 2014-16 drilling campaign to
update the geologic model described. The resource and reserve work
incorporated lithology and alteration models, all constructed in 3D
in Leapfrog Geo software. To constrain gold grade interpolation for
the Kışladağ deposit, Eldorado created 3D
mineralized envelopes or shells. These were based on initial
outlines derived by a method of probability assisted constrained
kriging (PACK). The threshold value of 0.20 g/t Au was determined
by inspection of histograms and probability curves as well as by
indicator variography. Shell outline selection was done by
inspecting contoured probability values. These shapes were then
edited on plan and section views to be consistent with the
lithology model and the drill assay data so that the boundaries did
not violate data and current geologic understanding of
mineralization controls.
 

The
block size for the Kişladağ model was selected based on
mining selectivity considerations (open pit mining). It was assumed
the smallest block size that could be selectively mined as ore or
waste, referred to the selective mining unit (SMU) and was
approximately 20 m x 20 m x 10 m. The assays were composited into 5
m fixed-length down-hole composites. The composite data were back-
tagged by the mineralized shell and lithology units (on a majority
code basis). Risk posed by extreme gold grades were checked; the
gold distributions at Kışladağ do not indicate a
problem with such grades.
 

Grade
modelling consisted of interpolation by ordinary kriging (OK) for
all domains inside the mineralized shell and inverse distance
weighting to the second power (ID2) for background model blocks.
Nearest-neighbor (NN) grades were also interpolated for validation
purposes. Blocks and composites were matched on estimation
domain.
 

A
two-pass approach was instituted for interpolation. The first pass
required a grade estimate to include composites from a minimum of
two holes from the same estimation domain, whereas the second pass
allowed a single hole to place a grade estimate in any
uninterpolated block from the first pass. This approach was used to
enable most blocks to receive a grade estimate within the domains,
including the background domains. Blocks received a minimum of 2 to
3 and maximum of 3 to 4 composites from a single drill hole (for
the two-hole minimum pass). Maximum composite limit ranged from 9
to 12. Searches had 95 to 500 m ranges for the estimation domains.
The gold model was validated by visual inspection, checks for
global bias and local trends and for appropriate levels of
smoothing (change-of-support checks).

 

 
25

 

 

The
mineral resources of the Kişladağ deposit were classified
using logic consistent with the CIM Definition Standards for
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves referred to in National
Instrument 43-101. The mineralization of the project satisfies
sufficient criteria to be classified into measured, indicated, and
inferred mineral resource categories.
 

Inspection
of the Kişladağ model and drillhole data on plans and
cross-sections, combined with spatial statistical work and
investigation of confidence limits in predicting planned annual and
quarterly production, contributed to the setup of various distance
to nearest composite protocols to help guide the assignment of
blocks into measured or indicated mineral resource categories.
Reasonable grade and geologic continuity is demonstrated over most
of the Kişladağ deposit, which is drilled generally on 40
m to 80 m spaced sections. Blocks were classified as indicated
mineral resources where blocks containing an estimate that resulted
from samples spaced within 80 m and from two or more drill holes.
Where the sample spacing was about 50 m or less, and the grade
estimated were from at least three drill holes, the confidence in
the grade estimates and lithology contacts were the highest and
were thus permissive to be classified as measured mineral
resources. All remaining model blocks containing a gold grade
estimate were assigned as inferred mineral resources.
 

A test
of reasonableness for the expectation of economic extraction was
made on the Kişladağ mineral resources by developing a
series of open pit designs based on optimal operational parameters
and gold price assumptions. A pit design based on $1,800/oz Au and
heap leaching was chosen to constrain mineral resources likely to
be mined by open pit mining methods. Eligible model blocks within
this pit shell were evaluated at an open pit resource cut-off grade
of 0.25 g/t Au. For interpolated blocks lying outside this pit
design, likely mining would be by underground methods. The
necessary economic threshold would be higher; thus a cut-off grade
of 0.60 g/t Au was chosen. Also, due to increased uncertainty
introduced by invoking a different mining method on these outside
pit resources, all measured eligible blocks were downgraded to
Indicated.
 

The
Kişladağ mineral resources as of January 17, 2020 are
shown in the following table as of January 17, 2020:

 

Table 9: 
Kişladağ Mineral Resources as of January 17,
2020
 

 

 

Mineral Resource Category

 

 

Resource (t x 1,000)

Grade Au (g/t)

Contained Au

(oz x 1,000)

Measured

345,440

0.63

6,975

Indicated

54,779

0.52

913

Measured
& Indicated

400,219

0.61

7,888

Inferred

29,933

0.60

575

 

7.
Mineral
Reserves and Mining Methods

 

The
operation uses conventional open pit techniques to feed crushing
and heap leaching circuits to process the ore. The mineral reserves
reported in this section are based upon continuation of heap
leaching and a modification in the crushing circuit by the addition
of a high pressure grinding roll (HPGR) in place of the existing
tertiary crushers from mid-2021 onwards.
 

The
open pit optimization and pit design was completed using
MineSight® software with comparative checks using
Whittle® software. No dilution was included in the conversion
of mineral resources to mineral reserves as the block modelling
methodology (probability assisted constrained kriging) already
accounts for dilution. Wall slope design incorporated inter-ramp
slope angles by the usage of 15 sectors, created from analysis and
modeling of multiple years geotechnical data.

 

 
26

 

 

The
mineral reserves for the deposit were estimated using a gold price
of US$1,250/oz and are effective January 17, 2020. The mineral
reserves are reported using a cut-off grade of 0.19 g/t recoverable
gold grade for ore that will be processed by heap leaching. This is
roughly equivalent to a cut-off of US$7.29/t net smelter return
(NSR) or an insitu gold cut-off grade of approximately 0.356 g/t.
Mineral reserves are as follows:

 

Table 10: 
Kişladağ Mineral Reserves Effective January 17,
2020

 

Mineral Reserves Category

Ore

(t x 1,000)

Grade Au (g/t)

Contained Au (oz x 1,000)

Proven

164,531

0.73

3,851

Probable

8,644

0.57

159

Proven
& Probable

173,175

0.72

4,010

 

The
mineral reserves as reported are derived from and are included in
the mineral resources.
 

The
mine is an open pit delivering 12.6 Mtpa ore to the three-stage
crushing circuit followed by heap leaching. Life of mine strip
ratio will be approximately 1.12:1. Mining methods are by
conventional open pit techniques with unit operations consisting of
drilling, blasting, loading, and hauling by truck.
 

The
mine fleet includes seven diesel drills, two electric drills, one
29 m3
electric hydraulic shovel, two 21 m3 diesel hydraulic
shovels, two 21.4 m3 wheel loaders, one
12 m3
wheel loader, fourteen 136 tonne trucks and ten 219 tonne trucks.
The major equipment is supported by a fleet of graders, dozers, a
backhoe and water trucks. No additional primary production
equipment will be needed and no complete replacements will be
required for this reserve.
 

Ore and
waste are mined on 10 m benches. Ore will be hauled to the primary
crusher for processing and waste rock will be placed in the south
rock dump (SRD) and the north rock dump (NRD). The current SRD can
accommodate 158.2 Mt of additional material from Dec 31, 2019. The
north rock dump location has capacity far in excess of the
remaining 34.9 Mt of waste that will be extracted with the ore
reserves.
 

Mining
has been designed in five phases with mining of the first two
phases already completed. The mining of phase 3 is ongoing. The
final pit will be approximately 1,650 m (east-west) x 1,300 m
(north-south) x 565 m deep.
 

8.
Metallurgical
Testwork and Recovery Methods

 

In
order to better understand gold leach recovery characteristics of
remaining mineralization, a comprehensive PQ sized diamond core
drilling program in the open pit was designed and executed in early
2019. The program comprised 117 holes with a total of 18,387 m. A
total of 101 holes were drilled for metallurgical testwork on site
and 16 holes were drilled to generate bulk samples for HPGR
testing. Out of the 101 PQ diamond drill holes, 118 composite
samples were created to represent different locations, depths, rock
types, alteration types, and contacts between units. Throughout the
deposit, the materials from 2 to 4 holes were combined to make up
the composite samples. Bulk samples for HPGR testing were created
on PQ sized holes where each sample was made out of 4 holes to
create enough sample weight (~ 5 tonnes). Three bulk composite ore
samples were created,
 

Each of
the composite samples was crushed and screened in the metallurgical
laboratory at the mine site to a particle size distribution, which
closely mimics that of the plant crusher circuit. Parcels of each
crushed composite sample were subjected to 2 m high, column leach
tests for a 220 day duration. Given the lengthy column test
duration requirements, small-scale IBRT tests were conducted in
parallel with the columns to a) determine if a more rapid recovery
value could be obtained for future recovery testing, and b) act as
validation of the columns results. Typical duration for these tests
is 5 to 10 days, however, the tailored approach, to better relate
to the deeper Kışladağ mineralization, entailed
increasing the duration to 45 days.

 

 
27

 

 

Testing
revealed that the gold leach cycle time requirement has increased
with depth in the open pit. Whereas previous, shallower
mineralization required approximately 90 to 120 days of irrigation
to meet “maximum” gold extraction, the deeper
mineralization will require approximately 300 days of irrigation.
Mean averaged gold recovery of the 2 m column tests was 51.8%; the
45 day IBRT tests returned averaged gold recoveries of 51%,
confirming the 220-day column recoveries. The IBRT result confirms
the procedure as valid for returning quicker recovery
estimates.
 

Products
from the HPGR testwork were tested by IBRT for ultimate recovery.
Averaged results show an additional 3.9 percentage points recovery
were achieved at the highest operating pressure (4.4 N/mm2) giving
a total of 54.8% in comparison to the base test 50.9%.
 

The
column recovery data was modeled in 3D using Leapfrog Geo, an
implicit modelling software. This created a base leach recovery
model that mimicked the variation of the samples. An HPGR recovery
model was made by simply adding 3.9% recovery units onto the
interpolated column recovery values.
 

The ore
is processed in a conventional heap leach facility which consists
of a three-stage crushing plant. The process plant will be modified
with the construction of an HPGR unit to replace the tertiary
crushing circuit. Typical crushed product size is 80% passing 6.5
mm. An overland conveyor moves the ore from crushing plant to heap
leach pad where mobile conveyors and a radial stacker places the
crushed ore onto the leach pad. The radial stacker is designed to
place the ore in 10 m high lifts in an 80 m wide sweep, the width
of one cell. Dissolved gold is recovered in a carbon adsorption
facility onto activated carbon. The gold-loaded carbon is then
stripped on site in a refinery and the final product is a gold
doré bar.
 

The
existing south heap leach pad is a series of 30 cells each 80 m
wide by 800 to 1,000 m long with a total size of approximately 1 km
x 2.4 km. The south heap leach pad has a capacity of 234 Mt and is
planned to be in service until 2029, when its maximum capacity is
reached. A new north heap leach pad will be constructed directly
north of the existing heap leach pad to provide additional 90 Mt of
stacked ore capacity.
 

Material
is now placed on interlift liner and is mixed with cyanide solution
while being placed on the heap leach pad.
 

9.
Infrastructure,
Permitting and Compliance Activities

 

The
project does not have to upgrade the existing access road, power or
water supplies.
 

The
crushing plant is adjacent to the open pit and the administration
buildings are located on ground level to the north of the open
pit.
 

The
south leach-pad is located on the western toe of Kişla
Dağ and bounded on the west side by the main basin drainage
course. The south leach pad facility starts 300 m north of the
crusher plant and extends northwards, approximately 2.4
km.
 

A north
leach pad facility, process and collection ponds will be
constructed approximately 600 m north of south heap leach and will
be accessed by a new overland conveyor connected to the current
conveyor running along the east side of the south pad.
 

The
south rock dump (SRD) is centered about 1 km southwest of the open
pit and currently holds approximately 210 Mt of waste rock with
additional capacity of 158.2 Mt within the permit boundaries. A new
north rock dump (NRD) on the mountain west of the leach pads will
need to be created. Designed to a capacity of 110 Mt, combined with
the remaining SRD capacity will ensure sufficient capacity to hold
the waste rock generated in the current mine plan.

 

 
28

 

 

The
site is bounded by a series of collection ditches to divert
non-contact water around the site to reduce the volume of contact
water. All contact water is collected from the mine site and pit
inflows and sent to collection ponds at the treatment plant. The
treatment plant is located north of the existing ADR plant with a
capacity of 625 m3/hr. On site there are numerous ponds to collect
process streams (barren and pregnant solutions at the ADR plant),
contact water, non-contact water, and surge ponds for storm events.
The ponds were sized based on a 100-year storm event with
additional capacities for storage and process surges.
 

The
process of obtaining the necessary permits for a mining operation
in Turkey is similar to the European Union EIA
Directive.
 

The
following are the key Project permits obtained to date, including
the date and the governmental authority that issued
them:
 

●
Mining Operation
Licence dated October 5, 2012 issued by the Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources;

 

●
Mining Operation
Permit dated October 5, 2012 issued by the Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources;

 

●
EIA Permit dated
June 24, 2014 issued by the Ministry of Environment;

 

●
Forestry
Permit10
dated June 30, 2004 issued by the Directorship of
Forestry;

 

●
Opening Permit
dated September 5, 2019 issued by the Provincial Administration of
Uşak;

 

●
Grazing Land
Permit11
dated January 16, 2019 issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry; and

 

●
Environmental
Permit and Licence12 dated March 22,
2019 issued by the Ministry of Environment.

 

The
Kişladağ Project Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
study was completed in January 2003 and submitted to the Turkish
Authorities at the Ministry of Forest and Environment. An
Environmental Positive Certificate for the project was subsequently
obtained in June 2003. Tüprag applied and received subsequent
EIA amendments in 2011 and 2014 to increase the Kişladağ
operations throughput to 12.5 Mtpa and 35 Mtpa respectively. The
current EIA area covers 2,509 ha. The land is classified as
forestry (54%), treasury (11%), with the remaining area belonging
to private land holders. As of December 31, 2019, Tüprag is
the owner of 86.95% of the private land within the concession. The
scope of the existing EIA is sufficient to accommodate envisioned
heap leach pad Project.
 

10 There are multiple
forest permits. Permit durations are determined by the duration of
the Mine Operation license (2032). After the mining operation
licence and permit was renewed on 2012-10-05, the older 17
different forestry permits (starting from 2004) were combined under
3 permits and they were all renewed on 2017-05-04.
 

11 There are multiple
grazing land permits. Permit durations are determined by the
duration of the Mine Operation License (2032).
 

12 The Environmental Permit and Licence is renewed every
five years from the date of issue.

 

 
29

 

 

The
Kişladağ gold mine employs approximately 82% of its
labour force from Uşak and villages surrounding the mine. As
an active part of the surrounding communities the mine has
completed numerous infrastructure programs within the region
including primary schools, water works including the Gedikler Dam,
and a 42 classroom building for Uşak University.
 

No
environmental liabilities have been assumed with the
Project.
 

10.
Capital
and Operating Costs

 

The
currency exchange rates used are as per Q4 2019 market conditions.
All costs are presented in US Dollars (US$) based on the exchange
rates shown in the following table:

 

Currency Code

Currency Name

Exchange Rate

US$

United States Dollar

US$1.00 = US$1.00

₺

Turkish Lira

US$1.00 = ₺6.20

CAN$

Canadian Dollar

US$1.00 = CAN$1.30

€

Euro

US$1.00 = €0.87

 

The
total growth capital cost includes the life-of-mine capitalized
waste stripping costs, as well as the initial investment cost to
obtain commercial product of a new HPGR circuit. Mining costs at
Kişladağ are very well understood, and as such, actual
productivities and costs were used as the basis of the mining
costs. Growth capital costs are summarized in the following
table:

 

Table 11: Growth Capital Cost Summary
 

Area

US$ x
1,000

Waste Stripping

254,970

HPGR

13,468

Other Plant Equipment and Platework

4,577

Civil Site Services

25

Concrete and Structural Steel

2,791

Electrical & Instrumentation

826

Sub-Total Direct Costs

276,657

Indirects and Owners

4,504

EPCM

2,386

Contingency

7,253

Total Installed Cost

290,800

 

Everything
other than the Waste stripping of $255 M is associated with the
purchase and installation of the HPGR. The costs of the HPGR
project in isolation is $35.8 M.
 
 

The
basis of the sustaining capital cost estimates vary based on the
nature of the costs. Kişladağ has been in operation since
2006. Costs associated with earthworks, leach pad construction, and
maintenance of capital equipment are very well understood. Ongoing
contract rates, actual costs data, and other in-house data have
been utilized as the basis of large majority of sustaining capital
costs, summarized in the following table:
 
Table 12: Sustaining Capital Cost
Summary
 

Area

US$ x
1,000

Mining Equipment Rebuild

58,379

Miscellaneous Mining Capital

3,030

North Rock Dump

5,117

North Leach Pad

116,976

Interlift Liners

25,260

Other Process Capital

32,487

General and Administrative

1,101

Other Sustaining Construction

2,898

Total Cost

245,247

 

 
30

 

 

The
operating cost estimate was developed based on a combination of
first principle calculations, reliance on historical
productivities, ongoing contract rates, past purchase orders, and
actual annual operating costs for the crushing circuit, heap leach
pad, plant infrastructure, and G&A.
 

The
life-of-mine operating cost estimate has been benchmarked against
actual operating cost data collected since the start of operations.
Operating costs were calculated for each year of operation,
totalling an average of US$111 M per annum and US$9.16/t ore over
life-of-mine, summarized in the following table:

 

Table 13: Operating Costs
 

 

LOM Average
(US$/t)

LOM Expenditure
(US$ x 1,000)

Mining

2.76

477,592

Process

4.92

851,359

G&A

1.43

247,794

Transport and Refining

0.05

8,891

Total Operating Costs

9.16

1,585,727

 

The
Kişladağ economics were analyzed using US$1,400/oz Au and
a discount rate of 5%. The test of economic extraction for the
Kışladağ mineral reserves is demonstrated by means a
sensitivity analysis. At the mineral reserve metals price of
US$1,250/oz Au, the Kişladağ operations shows positive
economics. Silver credit was assumed to be 0.50 oz silver payable
per 1.0 oz gold payable, based on historical averages, the model
assumes a silver price of US$18.00/oz; 100% of the gold recovered
is payable.
 

Transport
and refining costs of US$3.80/oz was used for economic analysis,
based on historical averages at the Kişladağ
operations.
 

The
model has been prepared on a yearly life of mine basis. The LOM is
15 years from the beginning of 2020.
 

The
after-tax net present value (NPV) of Kişladağ is
estimated to be US$582 M using a gold price of US$1,400/oz and a
discount rate of 5%. All capital investments planned for
Kişladağ are self-funding.
 

The
economic model was subjected to a sensitivity analysis to determine
the effects of changing metal prices on the Project financial
returns.

 

 
31

 

 

Results
are summarized as follows:
 

Figure 6: Sensitivity Analysis on Gold Price
 

 

11.
Exploration,
Development and Production

 

It is
concluded that the work to support the Kişladağ Technical
Report indicate that the mineral resource and mineral reserve
estimates and mine economics are sufficiently defined to indicate
that the Kışladağ gold mine, with its new lengthier
time leach recovery model is technically and economically viable as
a gold heap leach operation. HPGR studies should advance to the
basic engineering phase.
 

Eldorado
has a high degree of confidence in the contents of the
Kişladağ Technical Report.
 

Olympias Mine
 

Eldorado
owns and operates the Olympias mine in Greece through its 95% owned
subsidiary Hellas Gold SA (Hellas Gold). Eldorado has prepared a
technical report of the Olympias mine to provide an updated
description of the geology and mineralization, mineral resources
and mineral reserves, and mine and mill operations in light of
significant additional technical studies as well as operating
experience since the prior technical report, which had an effective
date of July 14, 2011.13
 

Information
and data for this report were obtained from the Olympias mine and
Eldorado’s corporate office. The work entailed review of
pertinent geological, mining, process and metallurgical data in
sufficient detail to support the preparation of the Olympias
Technical Report.
 

The
qualified persons responsible for preparing Olympias Technical
Report as defined in NI 43-101, Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects and in compliance with 43-101F1 are David Sutherland,
P.Eng., Paul Skayman, FAusIMM, Ertan Uludag, P.Geo., Colm Keogh,
P.Eng. and Sean McKinley, P.Geo., whom are all employees of
Eldorado. All qualified persons have visited the Olympias gold
mine.
 

13 Forward, P., Francis, A., and Lidell N. 2011, Technical
Report on the Olympias Project, Pb Zn Ag Deposit, Northern Greece,
effective date 14 July 2011.

 

 
32

 

 

1.
Property
Description, Location and Access

 

The
Olympias mine is located within the Kassandra Mines complex located
on the Halkidiki Peninsula of Northern Greece. The Olympias mine
lies 9 km north-northwest of the Stratoni port and loading
facility, accessed by a paved road along the coast. The terrain is
characterized by hills rising to about 600 m above sea level, with
steeply incised valleys.
 

The
Olympias mine consists of mining concession numbers F13 and F14,
which have a combined area of 47.27 km2. Hellas Gold has
been granted mining rights over these concessions until 7 April
2024. The concessions are conditionally renewable for a further two
consecutive periods of 25 years each. Hellas Gold has ownership of
a small portion of private land within the
concessions.
 

In July
2011, the Ministry of Environment (MOE) formally approved the
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) submitted by Hellas Gold for
the three Kassandra mines mine sites, being Olympias, Skouries, and
Stratoni. This EIS is valid for 10 years and subject to renewal in
2021.
 

For
production to commence, the MOE required the submission of a
technical study. A study was submitted to the MOE and approved in
early 2012. The installation permit for what was termed the Phase
II process plant was issued on 22 March 2016. The Company received
the operating permit for the Phase II plant in September 2017,
allowing commencement of commercial production operations. Also, in
September 2017 the Company received an extension of the
installation permit and an interim operating permit for the
Kokkinolakkas Tailings Management Facility (TMF), as well as the
delayed installation permit for the paste backfill
plant.
 

Notifications
for the Operation of the Olympias Paste Plant and Kokkinolakkas TMF
were formally submitted in 2018 and remain in force in line with
new legislation that replaced previous operating permit issuance
procedures.
 

Based
on current Greek legislation, royalties are applicable on active
mining titles. The royalty is calculated on a sliding scale tied to
metal prices. At the price index selected for the Project
evaluation, Hellas Gold would pay a royalty of approximately 2% on
Au, 1% on Ag, 0.5% on Pb, and 1% on Zn revenues.
 

The
corporate income tax rate for Greek companies in 2018 was 29%. This
is legislated to drop by 1% per annum until it reaches 25% in
fiscal year 2022.
 

The
closure and environmental rehabilitation activities for Kassandra
Mine Mineral Deposits Project relate to the following
facilities:
 

●
Open pit and
underground mine

 

●
Integrated waste
management facility (IWMF)

 

●
Process facilities
and infrastructure

 

To meet
the requirements of the reclamation program, decommissioning,
closure, and reclamation of the affected areas must be
undertaken.
 

Hellas
Gold has provided €57.5 M in Letters of Guarantee to the MOE
as security for the due and proper performance of rehabilitation
works in relation to the mining and metallurgical facilities of the
Kassandra Mines project and the removal, cleaning and
rehabilitation of the old disturbed areas from the historic mining
activity in the wider area of the project.

 

 
33

 

 

Hellas
Gold has also provided insurance coverage in accordance with
Presidential Decree 148/2009 (Government Gazette 190/A/29.9.2009)
for environmental liability.
 

2.
History

 

There
is a long history of mining in the area. Ancient mining reached a
peak during the time of Philip II of Macedon and Alexander the
Great, in the period 350 to 300 BC. The lead-rich ores from the
Madem Lakkos mine at Stratoni were smelted for silver and the
Olympias ores were processed for their high gold content. It has
been estimated, from the volume of ancient slags, that about 1 Mt
of ore were extracted from each locality during this period. It is
believed that by 300 BC, the bulk of the ores above the water table
at Olympias had been exploited, though the Stratoni mine continued
in production through the Roman, Byzantine, and Ottoman
periods.
 

The
following is a summary of the milestones in the history of the
Olympias mine:

 

Table 14: Summary of the History of the Olympias
Property

 

Year

Commentary

Historic
times

Bulk
of ores at Olympias above water table were extracted by 300
BC.

1933

Shaft
sunk to 74 m depth with some drifting.

1954

Owners
commenced exploration; thin, discontinuous sulphide lenses
encountered (and many ancient workings).

1965-66

Further
drilling intersected 10 m of lead-zinc mineralization 20 m below
the 1933 shaft.

1970

Ownership
transferred to Hellenic Fertilizer Company; ramp was started, and
production commenced in West Orebody.

1974-84

Mine
was developed to mine lead and zinc. Shaft was sunk to the -312 m
level; high grade mineralization of East orebody intersected;
highly profitable mining using sub-level caving; eventual
transition to less profitable drift-and-fill mining due to
excessive dilution, ground subsidence and water
problems.

1991

Hellenic
Fertilizer Company went into receivership; mine continued
production under subsidy from Greek government.

1995

Ownership
transferred to TVX Gold Inc. (TVX); production suspended to allow
for drilling to define mineral resources.

1998-99

TVX
completed drilling campaign (760 holes, 91,319 m) and issued a
Mineral Resource estimation; initial feasibility study
completed.

2004

Aktor
acquired mining concessions holding 317 km2, including the Olympias
and Skouries, deposits together with Stratoni (the Kassandra Mines)
through its subsidiary Hellas Gold. The Hellas Gold acquisition of
the Kassandra Mines was ratified by parliament and passed into law
in January 2004 (National Law no. 3220/2004).

European
Goldfields (EGL) acquired its initial ownership percentage interest
in Hellas Gold from Aktor through its wholly owned subsidiary
European Goldfields Mining (Netherlands) B.V.

2007

EGL
increased share ownership of Hellas Gold to 95% (with 5% held by
Aktor).

2011

EIS
approved by Greek government.

2012

Eldorado
acquired the project via the acquisition of EGL. Commenced tailings
re-treatment and rehabilitation of the underground mine shortly
thereafter.

 

3.
Geological
Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

 

The
Western Tethyan orogenic belt in southeast Europe contains several
major metallogenic provinces including the Serbo-Macedonian
Metallogenic Province that hosts the Kassandra mining district.
Crystalline basement within the district includes the upper Serbo
Macedonian Vertiskos Unit and the lower Kerdilion Unit exposed
within the southern Rhodope metamorphic core complex.

 

 
34

 

 

The
Olympias deposit is located 6 km north of the Stratoni fault within
the Kerdilion unit. Replacement-style sulfide orebodies are hosted
by marble interlayered within a sequence of quartzo-feldspathic
biotite gneiss, amphibolite and plagioclase microcline orthogneiss.
The massive sulfide orebodies plunge shallowly to the southeast for
over 1.8 km, subparallel to the orientation of F2 fold hinges and a
locally developed L2 intersection lineation. The locations of the
sulfide lenses, however, are largely controlled by strands of the
ductile-brittle Kassandra fault and East fault and sub-horizontal
shear zones that occur between the two faults.
 

Sulfide
mineralogy of the Olympias deposit consists of coarse-grained,
massive and banded lenses dominated by variable amounts of
sphalerite, galena, pyrite, arsenopyrite, chalcopyrite and
boulangerite. Gold occurs primarily in solid solution with
arsenopyrite and pyrite.
 

Olympias
is an example of a polymetallic carbonate replacement deposit.
However it is somewhat unusual due to the high Au content of the
deposit. Key characteristics of this class of deposit include
carbonate host rocks, massive sulfide mineralization, spatial and
temporal relationship with magmatism and zoned metal
distribution.
 

4.
Exploration

 

Eldorado
has not undertaken any significant exploration work at the
Olympias. There have been geological studies carried out on the
deposit as follows:
 

●
Surface geological
mapping in the area surrounding the minesite.

 

●
A study of the
deposit geology and structural controls, and a separate
petrographic study were carried out in 2013.

 

●
In 2018 a review of
the geological controls of the deposit was carried out. There was
also a review of the logging database; this work simplified the
logging codes to bring consistency to the process and recommended
further studies on the alteration rock geochemistry.

 

●
Some Terraspec
(Hyperspectral) SWIR measurements have been carried out on core to
measure alteration footprints to assist in future exploration
targeting.

 

5.
Drilling,
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification

 

Diamond
drillholes continue to be the prime source of subsurface geologic
and grade data for the Olympias deposit. The previous operator,
TVX, drilled 764 drillholes for a total of 93,246 m. These are
becoming less important as new information is acquired. Currently
holes are drilled by Eldorado using contractors drilling HQ or
NQ-size (63.5 mm or 47.6 mm nominal core diameter). The average
drillhole depth is 100 m, as the holes are drilled from locations
underground giving good intersection angles with the zones. There
are currently 1,855 drillholes for 210,893 m in the
database.
 

Core is
delivered to secure core logging areas, and the core is logged in
detail straight into a database using computer tablets. Lithology,
alteration, structure and mineralization data is collected; core
recovery data is also measured. Core photos are routinely taken of
all the core, both wet and dry, using a camera stand to ensure
consistent photographs. Collar and downhole survey data is
collected. Downhole surveys are taken using a Reflex GyroTM or a
Devico Deviflex. Both of these multishot instruments are calibrated
annually.

 

 
35

 

 

A
dataset of measured bulk densities from over 900 mineralized
samples is used to inform the resource block model.
 

Sampling
of the core is carried out on 1 m intervals or to geological
contacts. The core is sawn using an automated core saw and half is
bagged for dispatch, with the remainder being placed in the core
box for storage. Drill core samples are routinely sent to the ALS
facility in Romania. They are bagged and packed in large sealed
wooden bins before being trucked to ALS. The sample rejects are
returned to the mine site in the same bins. The samples are
prepared for assaying at the ALS facility.
 

All
samples were assayed for gold by 30 g fire assay with an AAS
finish, with Au values above 10 ppm determined by a gravimetric
finish. Multi-element determination was carried out by inductively
coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis and / or
inductively coupled plasma emission spectroscopy (ICP-ES)
analysis.
 

Eldorado
employs a comprehensive QA/QC program as part of the assaying
procedure, involving regular insertion of Certified Reference
Materials (CRMs), duplicates and blank samples. Site geologists
regularly monitor the performance of CRMs, blanks and duplicates as
the assay results arrive on site. In Eldorado’s opinion, the
QA/QC results demonstrate that the Olympias mine’s assay
database is sufficiently accurate and precise for the resource
estimation.
 

An
important measure of performance at any producing mine is
reconciliation of the block model to the final mill production
figures, adjusted for stockpiles as necessary. The reconciliation
conducted at Olympias is detailed and thorough. It is currently
providing a quarterly snapshot and demonstrating that the block
model, and thus the mineral resources, are valid and robust. This
validates the data underpinning the model and is, by association, a
good verification of the work done.
 

6.
Mineral
Processing and Metallurgical Testing.

 

Historical
and independent metallurgical test reports on samples from the
Olympias deposit were reported to be commissioned by previous mine
owners. The 2011 Technical Report concluded that, in general, the
testwork confirmed the anecdotal evidence from historic operations
that the ore responds well to flotation with high
recoveries.
 

In
2015, further metallurgical testwork and mineralogical
investigations were carried out on Fresh Ore and Old Ore samples
from the Olympias deposit. The main sulphide minerals in these
samples were galena, sphalerite, pyrite, and arsenopyrite. Other
than quartz, all other minerals can be considered minor. The
liberation of all sulphide minerals was excellent at a P80 of 120
µm. Flotation of galena, sphalerite and pyrite / arsenopyrite
in a sequential flowsheet was found to be effective at producing
lead, zinc and gold concentrates.
 

Lead
flotation was found to work well with Aerophine 3418 A, with lime
and sodium cyanide the only depressants needed. Copper activation
and zinc flotation were found to be optimum at a pH of 11.8 with
CuSO4 and SIPX. Flotation of pyrite and arsenopyrite was effective
at a pH of 6.0 controlled with sulphuric acid and
SIPX.
 

The
rejection of arsenic and antimony were found to be problematic in
the Pb concentrate in different samples. It was found to be
extremely difficult to reduce the content of arsenic in the Pb
concentrate from Fresh Ore to less than approximately 3%. Antimony
was not an issue with the Fresh Ore, but was identified with the
Old Ore as being present in the Pb concentrate at a grade of
approximately 3%, although arsenic was not an issue.

 

 
36

 

 

Tests
confirmed good settling-thickening characteristics for the
concentrates and tailings samples. Vacuum filtration of the Tails
underflow sample showed high throughput and low residual cake
moisture, which ranged from 13.6% to 22.3%. Pressure filtration on
concentrate underflow samples indicated high throughput and low
residual moisture.
 

Acid
Base Accounting (ABA) testing indicated uncertain acid generation
potential for the Olympias tailings; NAG testing reported no net
acidity generated. Analysis of the NAG liquor reported arsenic at
an environmentally significant concentration.
 

7.
Mineral
Resources Estimates

 

Mineral
resource estimates for Olympias mine were made from a 3D block
model utilizing MineSight 3D software. Project limits, in UTM
coordinates, are 478105 to 479700 East, 4491165 to 4493480 North
and -800 to +60m elevation. Cell size for the project was 5m east x
5m west X 5m high.
 

A grade
based discriminant was developed to allow for more consistent
interpretations to be made. This was accomplished by creating a
simplistic value formulae based on the logic of a Net Smelter
Return (NSR) formula that used a combination of metal prices and
metal recoveries to act as weighting factors against each metal.
This metric, a dollar value, proved to be an excellent surrogate
for a comprehensive equivalent grade. Inspection of these resource
defining values (RDV) showed that for the parameters used, a value
of $50 best defined what one would classify as likely economically
mineralized zones.
 

For the
Olympias modeling, the deposit was divided into three zones: East,
West, and Flats. Within each of these zones, modeling domains were
created using the $50 RDV. Assays and composite samples were tagged
by these domain shapes ahead of data analysis and grade
interpolation. The assays were top-capped prior to compositing and
were composited into 1 m composites within the
wireframes.
 

Grade
estimates for Au, Ag, As, Pb, Zn and Fe were interpolated using an
inverse distance to the power of 4 (ID4) method.
Nearest–neighbour (NN) grades were also interpolated as a
declustered distribution to validate the estimation method. A
multi-pass approach was instituted for interpolation. The first
pass required a grade estimate to include composites from a minimum
of two holes from the same estimation domain, whereas the second
pass allowed a single hole to place a grade estimate in any
uninterpolated block from the first pass. The metal models were
validated by visual inspection, checks for global bias and local
trends and for appropriate levels of smoothing (change- of-support
checks).
 

The
mineral resources of the Olympias mine were classified using logic
consistent with the CIM definitions referred to in NI 43-101. The
mineralization of the mine satisfies sufficient criteria to be
classified into measured, indicated, and inferred mineral resource
categories.
 

Olympias
mine mineral resources, as of September 30, 2019, are shown in the
following table. The Olympias mine mineral resources are reported
at a zero cut-off within wireframes based on $50 RDV.

 

Table 15: Olympias Mine Mineral Resources as of September 30,
2019
 

Classification

Tonnes (Kt)

Au (g/t)

Au (Koz)

Ag (g/t)

Ag (Koz)

Pb (%)

Pb (Kt)

Zn (%)

Zn (Kt)

Measured

2,702

10.93

950

156

13,552

5.0

135

6.0

162

Indicated

11,779

7.52

2,848

134

50,746

4.6

542

6.2

730

Measured and Indicated

14,481

8.16

3,798

138

64,298

4.7

677

6.2

892

Inferred

3,720

7.98

954

137

16,385

3.9

145

4.0

149

 

 
37

 

 

8.
Mineral
Reserves

 

Mineral
reserve estimates conform to CIM Definition Standards (2014). All
design and scheduling have been completed using the mineral
resource model and estimate described in Section 14. Only measured
and indicated resources have been used for mineral reserves
estimation. The estimation assumes that the mining methods employed
at the mine will be drift and fill (DAF) and transverse longhole
open stoping (TLHOS).
 

The
cut-off values supporting the estimation of underground mineral
reserves were developed in 2018 and based on future projected
operating costs at a steady-state production rate of 650,000 tonnes
per annum. The operating cost assessment indicated that NSR values
of $133/t for DAF mining and $116/t for TLHOS mining would
adequately cover all site operating costs on a breakeven basis. The
weight averaged operating cost can be estimated at $125/t
considering the balance between TLHOS and D&F. These DAF and
TLHOS cut-offs were used to create potentially mineable stope
shapes from the NSR block model (NSR BM). The NSR BM was created by
Eldorado and is based on metallurgical recovery experience and
historical sales and includes recognition of transport and refining
costs.
 

In the
evaluation of underground mineral reserves, modifying factors were
applied to the tonnages and grades of all mining shapes to account
for dilution and ore losses. In the DAF stopes, a mining dilution
factor of 13% and a mining recovery of 98% were estimated. In the
TLHOS stopes a mining dilution factor of 14% and a mining recovery
of 95% were estimated.
 

The
mineral reserve estimate is summarized in the following table and
has an effective date of September 30, 2019:

 

Table 16: Olympias Mineral Reserves as of September 30,
2019
 

Class

Tonnes (kt)

Au (g/t)

Au (Moz)

Ag (g/t)

Ag (Moz)

Pb (%)

Pb (kt)

Zn (%)

Zn (kt)

Proven

2,601

9.19

0.77

133

11.1

4.3

112

5.1

133

Probable

10,324

6.47

2.15

115

38.2

4.0

413

5.3

547

Total

12,925

7.02

2.92

119

49.3

4.1

525

5.3

680

Notes:
 

●
Mineral
reserves are included in measured and indicated mineral
resources.

●
Figures
in the tables may not compute due to rounding.

●
The
mineral reserves are based on a planning cut-off grade of $133/t
for DAF and $116/t for TLHOS, and $50/t for development
ore.

●
Cut-off
grades are based on a gold metal price of $1,250/oz, silver metal
price of $16/oz, zinc metal price of $2,000/t, and lead metal price
of $1,800/t.

●
Metallurgical
recoveries are based on feed grade and metallurgical
algorithms.

●
Exchange
rate used is €1.20 = US$1.00.

●
Average
mining dilution and mining recovery factors of 14% and 95%,
respectively, for LHOS, and 13% and 98%, respectively, for DAF are
assumed.

●
Mineral
reserves are reported on a 100% ownership basis; Eldorado owns 95%
of Hellas Gold.

 

9.
Mining
Operations

 

The
Olympias Mine is a 100% underground (UG) mining operation
extracting ore from three zones: East, West and Flats and two
sub-zones: Remnants, and North. These are shown below as an
isometric view of the Olympias underground zones looking
north-west:

 

 
38

 

 

Figure 7:
Isometric View of Olympias Underground Zones
 

 

Mining
is currently at a rate of 360 ktpa. There is a production increase
planned to take place between 2019 and 2023 to a steady-state value
of 650 ktpa.
 

Ground
support is a combination of shotcrete, split sets and swellex bolts
of varying lengths. All mined out areas are backfilled either with
paste fill or cemented aggregate fill.
 

Mining
at Olympias will be a combination of drift and fill (DAF) and
transverse longhole open stoping (TLHOS). TLHOS will be confined to
areas of the Flats where geometry and ground conditions support the
use of the higher productive method. The remainder of the mine will
use DAF.
 

TLHOS
will be excavated 10 m wide and 30 m high maximum. The maximum
length varies depending on the height and average rock quality.
Blind uppers will be used for drill and blast with no top
accesses.
 

DAF
mining utilizes the overhand mining method. Stopes are accessed on
the foot wall side from the main ramp starting at the bottom of
each 20 m high stoping block. Each lift is mined 5 m high, with
each panel limited to 5 m wide. There are two methods of DAF
stoping, longitudinal and multi-pass.
 

Longitudinal
is utilized where the stopes are less than 10 m wide. A single pass
is mined down the length of the stope and any remaining ore is
slashed off the HW on retreat. The stope is then filled prior to
taking down the back in the access for the next lift.
 

Multi-pass
is utilized where the stopes are greater than 10 m wide. Mining
starts by cross cutting the ore body from footwall to HW. Then a
single drift is developed in the ore to the extents of the stope in
both directions along the footwall. Transverse cuts are then made
from footwall to HW at multiple locations such that multiple
working faces are established. After each cut is made it is
backfilled, and then a new cut is mined beside the previous one.
Once the lift is completely mined out, the back of the access is
taken down to start the next lift.
 

All
stopes are filled with backfill after excavation. Currently a
combination of cemented aggregate fill (CAF) and paste fill is
used. The paste fill system has been designed to produce 42 m3/hr
of paste, which will meet all future backfill requirements at 650
ktpa production with 70% utilization. CAF is delivered to stopes by
truck and pushed into place with loaders. Paste is delivered with
positive displacement pumps via drill holes and pipes.

 

 
39

 

 

There
are two declines currently in use, one accessing the West Zone down
to the Flats and one accessing the East Zone down to the Flats.
There are multiple cross-over drifts between the two declines. Both
declines are currently being extended into the Flats and to the
bottom of the mine.
 

Both
ore and waste are hauled to surface utilizing 40 tonne haul trucks
on the existing and expanding declines. This will continue to be
the case after the production increase to a steady-state value of
650 ktpa.
 

The
total of personnel currently working at the mine is 562. The mine
operates 3 shifts a day, 20 shifts per week.
 

There
is currently 23 large pieces of mobile mining equipment on site:
four jumbos, two bolters, five trucks, six loaders, four
transmixers and two shotcrete sprayers. To achieve the production
increase to 650 ktpa, funding has been allocated to increase this
fleet number to 33. The increase will consist of one jumbo, two
bolters, two longhole drills, two trucks, and three
loaders.
 

The
ventilation system consists of a single exhaust raise with fan. Air
intake is via the two declines, the shaft and the old workings. Two
means of egress are provided by the two declines. Current flow is
115 m3/s;
this will increase to 360 m3/s for the 650 ktpa production
rate.
 

Currently
packaged explosives are being used for all blasting. There are no
magazines on site and explosives are brought to site daily by the
supplier. The use of bulk explosives is being investigated as an
opportunity. The construction of a new underground magazine is
planned for 2020. Steady-state full production explosives
consumption is estimated at 53 tonnes per month.
 

As an
operating mine, infrastructure is well developed with existing
process water, compressed air, electrical distribution, and
dewatering systems. For the 650 ktpa expansion, a new compressor,
dewatering station and underground shop is being installed. These
activities are currently in progress.
 

10.
Processing
and Recovery Operations

 

The
Olympias lead-zinc-gold-silver process plant has been developed in
phases:
 

●
Phase I involved
the recommissioning of the plant, after a prolonged inactivity, and
processing of the existing tailings. Phase I commenced in 2013 and
was completed on commissioning of Phase II.

 

●
Phase II was
commissioned in late 2017 and is currently in operation. It
included refurbishment and upgrading of the process facilities to
process 430 ktpa of ore. The Phase II process facility consists of
comminution, flotation and filtering to produce three saleable
concentrates: lead / silver (lead), zinc and arsenopyrite / pyrite
gold (gold). All concentrates are sold to worldwide markets.
Tailings are used for underground backfill via the on-surface paste
plant. Any tailings not used for underground mine backfill are
filtered and trucked from the Olympias processing facility to the
Kokkinolakkas tailings management facility (TMF) over public roads.
Phase II will be in operation until commissioning of the Olympias
Phase III expansion.

 

●
The expansion
Project involves upgrading of the existing Olympias process plant
to handle a mine feed rate of 650 ktpa of ore, and upgrades to the
port facilities at Stratoni. A permit is required from the
Government of Greece to extend the mine life of the existing Phase
2 facilities and to increase the processing rate to 650,000 tpa. A
further expansion may be required. Studies are currently underway
to extract more value from the gold concentrate that is currently
being sold to traders and smelters around the world. If a viable
extraction method is developed, then construction of a new
metallurgical facility would follow.

 

 
40

 

 

The
treatment facility incorporates the following unit process
operations:
 

●
Three-stage
crushing to produce 80% material passing 13 mm ore.

 

●
Ore storage between
crushing and grinding in a fine ore bin with a 1,155 t live
capacity.

 

●
Single-stage ball
milling in closed circuit with hydrocyclones to produce 80%
material passing 120 µm.

 

●
Flash flotation to
remove high grade lead from the recirculating load.

 

●
Lead flotation
employing the following circuits:

 

●
Roughing and
scavenging.

 

●
Regrind of flash
flotation and rougher / scavenger concentrate to 80% passing 15
µm size.

 

●
Three stages of
cleaning and one stage of cleaner scavenging (in open
circuit).

 

●
Zinc flotation
employing the following circuits:

 

●
Roughing and
scavenging.

 

●
Regrind of rougher
/ scavenger concentrate to 80% passing 15 µm size of rougher /
scavenger concentrate.

 

●
Three stages of
cleaning and one stage of cleaner scavenging (in open
circuit).

 

●
Gold-pyrite
flotation utilizing roughing and scavenging and a single stage of
cleaning.

 

●
Concentrate
thickening, filtration, packaging, and storage prior to dispatch
from the mine site by road.

 

●
Tailings thickening
and filtration prior to direct or reclaim addition to a cemented
backfill plant.

 

●
Tailings paste
backfill.

 

●
Reagent mixing,
storage and distribution.

 

●
Water and air
services.

 

11.
Infrastructure

 

As an
operating mine, current infrastructure is robust and complete. The
mine has access to the main highway system in Greece via paved
roads to the mine site. Local services are provided via the towns
of Olympiada and Stratoni, with additional services available
through Thessaloniki.

 

 
41

 

 

Zinc
concentrate is shipped via the port facility at Stratoni (owned by
Hellas Gold). Lead and arsenopyrite concentrates are shipped via
Thessaloniki. There is a plan in place to rehabilitate and upgrade
the Stratoni port facility over the period from 2020 to 2023; this
will allow for the shipping of all concentrates by bulk out of
Stratoni with the associated cost savings.
 

Water
for the mine is obtained from underground dewatering, after
treatment. Excess water from underground is discharged into the
Mavrolakkas stream after settling and treatment to meet discharge
standards. Currently, the capacity to handle 400 m3/hr is
available; this is being increased to 650 m3/hr, which will be
sufficient for the mine life. Service water is supplied via a local
borehole in the regional aquifer.
 

Waste
rock is either recycled underground for fill or is disposed of in
the existing waste disposal facility. Tailings not used for
pastefill are dewatered to 13% moisture content and transported by
truck to the new tailings management facility at Kokkinolakkas near
the Stratoni facilities, about 23 km by public road from the
mine.
 

Existing
surface facilities consist of a surface workshop, administration
building, dry, shaft, and fuel storage (60,000 litres capacity).
The workshop and fuel storage will be adequate for the production
increase. The shaft is used for inspection of a legacy pump station
only and there are no plans to rehabilitate the shaft further.
Construction of a new geology preparation laboratory and technical
services building, and expansion to the existing administration
building are to be completed as part of the expansion.
 

Current
power to site consists of a 20 kV 10 mVA pole line from the PPC
grid. To facilitate the production increase, a new pole line at 150
kV 25 mVA, along with a new substation, will be constructed over
the years 2020 and 2021. Backup power consists of 4,920 kW of
diesel generation in multiple distributed generators. An additional
2,500 kW of generated power will be added for the production
increase.
 

The EIS
for the Kassandra mines mineral deposits project (Kassandra
Project) includes an area of 26,400 ha in north-eastern Halkidiki
(Macedonia Region). The Kassandra Project includes the Skouries,
Olympias and Stratoni sites. No significant impact is expected on
the landscape, geological environment, atmosphere, or water
resources in the area. The overall impacts to date have been
positive to the environment, as legacy tailings and concentrate
storage are in the process of being removed to the new TMF facility
at Kokkinolakkas, and the associated areas rehabilitated. The
Kassandra Project provides significant economic and social impacts
for the Halkidiki Prefecture, including:
 

●
A significant
contribution is made to the national economy.

 

●
Significant
infrastructure is constructed and equipped by local
companies.

 

●
Service industries
in the local economy expand.

 

●
New jobs are
progressively created.

 

After
the completion of all Kassandra operations, the project areas will
be rehabilitated according to appropriate and approved land uses.
All structures are to be removed or left in a state that they do
not pose a risk to the environment or public. The environment will
be returned to a state of a self- sustaining ecosystem and safe and
stable biological conditions will be re-created.

 

 
42

 

 

Hellas
Gold has provided a letter of guarantee for €50M in favour of
the Greek State as an assurance that the funds necessary for
rehabilitation works in relation to the mining and metallurgical
facilities of the Kassandra mines project and the removal, cleaning
and rehabilitation of the old disturbed areas from the historic
mining activity in the wider area of the project. Additionally, a
Letter of Guarantee to the MOE, in the amount of €7.5M, has
been provided as security for the due and proper performance of the
Kokkinolakkas TMF.
 

12.
Permitting

 

In July
2011, the Ministry of Environment (MOE) formally approved the
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) submitted by Hellas Gold for
the three Kassandra Mines mine sites, being Olympias, Skouries and
Stratoni, which involves an area of 26,400 ha, in north-eastern
Halkidiki (Macedonia Region). This EIS is valid for 10 years and
subject to renewal in 2021.
 

For
production to commence, the MOE required the submission of a
technical study. A study was submitted to the MOE and approved in
early 2012. The installation permit for what was termed the Phase
II process plant was issued on 22 March 2016. Installation work was
completed in May 2017, at which time commissioning and trial
production commenced. The Company received the operating permit for
the Phase II plant in September 2017, allowing commencement of
commercial production operations. In September 2017, the Company
also received an extension of the installation permit and an
interim operating permit for the Kokkinolakkas tailings management
facility (TMF), as well as the delayed installation permit for the
paste backfill plant.
 

Hellas
Gold has provided a €50.0 M Letter of Guarantee to the MOE as
security for the due and proper performance of rehabilitation works
in relation to the mining and metallurgical facilities of the
Kassandra mines project, and the removal, cleaning and
rehabilitation of the old disturbed areas from the historic mining
activity in the wider area of the project. Additionally, a Letter
of Guarantee to the MOE, in the amount of €7.5 M, has been
provided as security for the due and proper performance of the
Kokkinolakkas TMF.
 

Notifications
for the Operation of the Olympias paste plant and Kokkinolakkas TMF
were formally submitted in 2018 and remain in force in line with
new legislation that replaced previous operating permit issuance
procedures.
 

13.
Social
and Community Factors

 

The
positive consequences of the Olympias Project are very important
for the Halkidiki Prefecture and for the National Economy. The
general financial and social consequences deriving from the
Olympias Project are the following:
 

●
A significant
contribution is made to the National Economy.

 

●
Significant
infrastructure is constructed and equipped by local
companies.

 

●
Service industries
in the local economy expand.

 

●
New jobs are
progressively created.

 

 
43

 

 

14.
Capital
and Operating Costs

 

The
total capital cost estimate includes the expansion to 650 ktpa in
the process plant, as well as capital development of the
underground mine and sustaining capital, which is primarily for
development, mine, processing infrastructure, and maintenance.
Expansion capital specifically includes process plant upgrades,
water management facilities, phase 1 and phase 2 of the Stratoni
port facility upgrade as allocated amongst the Kassandra assets,
related indirect costs, EPCM, owner’s and contingency costs.
Capital and sustaining capital costs are summarized as
follows:
 

Table 17: Capital
Cost Summary
 

Area

Growth ($ x 1,000)

Sustaining ($ x 1,000)

Total

($ x 1,000)

Mining
Dev't and Equipment

9,616

89,471

99,087

Mine
Infrastructure

3,876

49,161

53,037

Process
Plant

18,892

14,356

33,248

Tailings
+ Water

9,457

17,630

27,087

Surface
Supports

5,739

2,056

7,795

Stratoni
Port Facility

15,478

5,700

21,178

Others

1,566

2,829

4,395

Total Direct Cost

64,624

181,203

245,827

Indirect
Cost

6,894

10,990

17,884

Spares
and Fills

3,153

-

3,153

EPCM

6,306

3,060

9,366

Owners
Costs

3,153

-

3,153

Contingency

15,765

-

15,765

Total Installed Costs

99,894

195,253

295,147

 

Operating
costs include allocations for underground mining, processing,
tailings filtration, concentrate transport, tailings filtrations,
materials handling, and stacking, water management, and general and
administration (G&A).
 

Operating
costs were estimated for each year of operation and are summarized
as follows:
 

Table 18:
Operating Costs Summary
 

Category

LOM ($M)

LOM average ($/t ore)

Steady State: 2024 to 2038 ($/t ore)

Mining
costs

908

69.6

48.9

Tailings
and water management costs

56

4.4

4.4

Processing
costs

652

50.4

50.4

G&A
costs

310

23.9

21.3

Total operating cost

1,925

148.3

125.0

 

 
44

 

 

Current
labour productivities are considered very low when compared to
other international operations. Eldorado believes that the
envisaged improvement initiatives are reasonable and achievable and
has allowed for effective work hours per shift to gradually reach
5.5 hrs. This will be assisted by the increase in number of
available faces for DAF mining though design and sequence changes.
The introduction of more cost-effective THLOS mining for
approximately one third of the steady-state tonnage is also a major
factor in the future operating costs schedules. All of these
initiatives should be in place as steady state by 2024. To
illustrate the positive impact of these initiatives on LOM
operating costs, a separate column was created in Table 18 showing
estimated costs from 2024 to 2038.
 

15.
Economic
Analysis

 

The
economic model has been prepared on an annual life of mine basis.
The effective date of the estimate is assumed to be December 31,
2019. The LOM for the current mineral reserves is projected to be
21 years.
 

The
after-tax cash flow analysis shows that Olympias is a robust
Project once the additional capital is applied and the project
reaches a steady state level of production. The net present value
(NPV) of the Project is estimated to be $1,067M, using a discount
rate of 5%, with positive after-tax net cash flows projected in all
years other than 2019, the initial year of expansion capital
expenditure.
 

Key
results for the project economics are as follows:

 

Table 19: Key Economic Results
 

Olympias

Unit

Value

Total
ore milled

kt

12,925

Net
revenue

$M

4,501

Total
Capital costs

$M

295

Operating
costs (total)

$M

1,925

Transport,
treatment and refining costs

$M

408

Royalties

$M

67

Corporate
tax

$M

423

Net
post-tax cash flow

$M

1,866

Post-tax
NPV @ 5% discount rate

$M

1,061

Post-tax
NPV @ 8% discount rate

$M

783

 

The
economic model was subjected to a sensitivity analysis to determine
the effects of changing metal prices, and of operating and capital
cost assumptions on the projected financial returns. The results of
the sensitivity analysis are as follows:
 

Table 20: Metal
Price Sensitivity Analysis
 

Sensitivity Ranges

Parameters

Units

-15%

-7.5%

Project
case

+7.5%

+15%

Gold
price

$/oz

1,200

1,300

1,400

1,500

1,600

Silver
price

$/oz

15.0

17.0

18.0

19.0

21.0

Lead
price

$/t

1,800

1,900

2,100

2,300

2,400

Zinc
Price

$/t

2,000

2,200

2,400

2,600

2,800

Results (after tax)

NPV
0%

$M

1,327

1,604

1,866

2,164

2,415

NPV
5%

$M

724

897

1,062

1,241

1,395

NPV
8%

$M

519

655

783

925

1,046

Taxation

$M

248

336

423

512

591

Royalties

$M

42

52

66

76

120

 

 
45

 

 

Table 21: Capital
and Operating Cost Sensitivity Analysis
 

Sensitivity Ranges

Parameter

Units

-15%

Project case

15%

LOM Capex

$M

256

295

347

NPV
0% (after tax)

$M

1,927

1,866

1,836

NPV
5% (after tax)

$M

1,105

1,062

1,030

NPV
8% (after tax)

$M

823

783

755

LOM operating costs

$/t
ore

126

148

170

NPV
0% (after tax)

$M

2,100

1,866

1,663

NPV
5% (after tax)

$M

1,205

1,062

929

NPV
8% (after tax)

$M

899

783

678

 

The
test of economic extraction for Olympias is demonstrated by means
of this sensitivity analysis. At the mineral reserve metals prices
stated, Olympias shows strong positive economics. The sensitivity
analysis also shows that the Olympias economics are robust when
evaluated using lower metal price assumptions, or higher operating
and capital costs.
 

16.
Exploration,
Development and Production

 

Olympias
is a mine with a long history that has only been recently put back
into production by Eldorado. Commercial production was achieved in
December 2017. Project economics are robust. There are sufficient
mineral reserves for a mine life of 21 years at a steady-state
production rate of 650 ktpa. The mine has embarked on a series of
initiatives to increase both productivity and production rates
(from current rate of 360 ktpa to 650 ktpa).
 

Key
recommendations are as follows:
 

●
Expand extents of
mineralization in upper levels of the mine area through conversion
of Inferred resources and exploration. Any additional ore in this
region would have synergies with the existing
infrastructure.

 

●
Use of ore sorting
or dense media technology to pre-concentrate the ore coming from
underground before it is processed in the grinding and flotation
circuits with the intention of maximizing the annual metal
production from the Olympias mine

 

●
Ongoing research
into an alternative processing method to extract additional value
from the gold concentrate currently being sold directly to smelters
and traders worldwide. Technical solutions do exist for extraction
of much of the contained gold but these need to be able to
demonstrate acceptable rates of return and to comply with
environmental and safety requirements. If a viable extraction
method is developed, then construction of the new metallurgical
facility would follow.

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
material change report are forward-looking statements or
information within the meaning of the United States Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian
securities laws. Often, these forward-looking statements and
forward-looking information can be identified by the use of words
such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
“continue”, “projected”, "scheduled",
"estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes"
or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could",
"would", "might" or "will" be taken, occur or be
achieved.
 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this
material change report include, but are not limited to, statements
or information with respect to: our guidance and outlook, including
expected production, cost guidance and recoveries of gold,
including increased heap leach recoveries through increased leach
time in conjunction with a high pressure grinding roll at Kisladag,
favourable economics for our heap leaching plan and the ability to
extend mine life at our projects, including at Kisladag, improved
production at Olympias, expanded production, expectations regarding
repayment of outstanding debt, planned capital and exploration
expenditures; our expectation as to our future financial and
operating performance, expected metallurgical recoveries, improved
concentrate grade and quality, gold price outlook and the global
concentrate market; and our strategy, plans and goals, including
our proposed exploration, development, construction, permitting and
operating plans and priorities and related timelines and schedules
and results of litigation and arbitration proceedings.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, market uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.
 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; the
global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated costs and
expenses; production, mineral reserves and resources and
metallurgical recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions,
suspensions or delays on our business and the ability to achieve
our goals. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this material
change report.

 

 
46

 

 
 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: results of further testwork, recoveries of gold and
other metals; geopolitical and economic climate (global and local),
risks related to mineral tenure and permits; gold and other
commodity price volatility; continued softening of the global
concentrate market; risks regarding potential and pending
litigation and arbitration proceedings relating to the
Company’s, business, properties and operations; expected
impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of the
reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; financing risks, foreign country
operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks
and liabilities including, environmental regulatory restrictions
and liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated
production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical
testing and recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency
fluctuations; community and non-governmental organization actions;
speculative nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price
volatility and the price of the common shares of the Company;
competition; loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral
claims or properties, as well as those risk factors discussed in
the sections titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and
"Risk factors in our business" in the Company's most recent Annual
Information Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to
carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our most recent
Annual Information Form and other regulatory filings filed on SEDAR
under our Company name, which discussion is incorporated by
reference in this material change report, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.
 

Financial Information and condensed statements contained herein or
attached hereto may not be suitable for readers that are unfamiliar
with the Company and is not a substitute for reading the
Company’s financial statements and related MD&A available
on our website and on SEDAR under our Company name. The reader is
directed to carefully review such document for a full understanding
of the financial information summarized herein.
 

Except as otherwise noted, scientific and technical information
contained in this material change report was reviewed and approved
by Paul Skayman, FAusIMM, Special Advisor to the Chief Operating
Officer, a "qualified person" under NI 43-101.
 

Item 6.

Reliance on 7.1(2) of National Instrument 51-102

 

Not applicable.

 

 
47

 

 

Item 7.

Omitted Information

 

Not applicable.
 

Item 8.

Executive Officer

 

 Name
of Executive Officer:

Timothy
Garvin

 

Executive
Vice President and General Counsel

 

Telephone
number: (604)
601 6692

 

 

 
 

Item 9.

Date of Report

 

March 3, 2020

 

 

 
48