EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT

ego_ex991

 Exhibit
99.1

 

ELDORADO GOLD CORPORATION
 

FORM 51-102F3
 

MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT
 
 

Item 1. Name
and Address of Company
 

Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado” or the
“Company”)

Suite
1188 – Bentall 5

550
Burrard Street

Vancouver, British
Columbia V6C 2B5
 

Item 2.

Date of Material Change

 

August
26, 2021
 

Item 3.

News Release

 

The
Company disseminated a news release via Global Newswire, and filed
it on SEDAR, August 26, 2021.
 

Item 4.

Summary of Material Change

 

On
August 26, 2021, Eldorado announced the completion of its offering
of US$500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.250% senior notes
due 2029 (the “Notes”).
 

Item 5.

Full Description of Material Change

 

On
August 26, 2021, Eldorado announced the completion of its offering
of the Notes. Eldorado will use the net proceeds from the sale of
the Notes to redeem its outstanding US$234 million 9.500% Senior
Secured Second Lien Notes due June 2024 effective September 9,
2021, to repay all amounts outstanding under its existing term loan
facility, to repay all amounts outstanding under its existing
revolving credit facility, to pay fees and expenses in connection
with the foregoing, and for general corporate purposes. Eldorado
has obtained the requisite consent of its lenders for the sale of
the Notes under the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
dated as of May 13, 2019 among the Company, as borrower, and HSBC
Bank Canada, as administrative agent, among others.

 

The
Notes have not been registered under the United States Securities
Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or the
securities laws of any state and may not be offered or sold absent
registration under the Securities Act or an applicable exemption
from the registration requirements thereof. The Notes have been
offered and sold only to persons reasonably believed to be
qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A under
the Securities Act and to certain “non-U.S. persons”
outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the
Securities Act and in each case pursuant to available prospectus
exemptions from securities laws of British Columbia. The Notes have
been offered and sold outside of the United States (including in
Canada) on a private placement basis pursuant to certain exemptions
from applicable securities laws.

 

 

 

 

This
report does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an
offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in
any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be
unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the
securities laws of any such jurisdiction or an exemption
therefrom.
 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
report are forward-looking statements or information within the
meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, these
forward-looking statements and forward-looking information can be
identified by the use of words such as “anticipates”,
“believes”, “continue”,
“expects”, “is expected” or
“intends” or the negatives thereof or variations of
such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events
or results “may”, “could”,
“would”, “might” or “will” be
taken, occur or be achieved. Forward-looking statements or
information contained in this report include, but are not limited
to, statements or information with respect to the use of the net
proceeds from the sale of the Notes.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information, including
assumptions about: how the world-wide economic and social impact of
COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; the geopolitical, economic and legal climate that we
operate in; the repayment of outstanding indebtedness; and
anticipated costs and expenses. In particular, except where
otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of existing
business operations on substantially the same basis as exists at
the time of this report. Even though our management believes that
the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such
statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statements or information will prove to be
accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are
beyond our control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: global outbreaks of infectious diseases, including
COVID-19; geopolitical and economic climate (global and local)
risks; financing risks; as well as those risk factors discussed in
the sections titled “Forward-looking information and
risks” and “Risk factors in our business” in the
Company’s most recent Annual Information Form & Form
40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on
SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this report, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

 
-2-

 

 

Forward-looking statements and information are designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company’s business
contained in the Company’s reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.
 

Item 6.

Reliance on 7.1(2) of National Instrument 51-102

 

Not
applicable.
 

Item 7.

Omitted Information

 

Not
applicable.
 

Item 8.

Executive Officer

 

Name of Executive
Officer: 
Tim
Garvin

 
Executive Vice
President and General Counsel

Telephone
number: 
(604) 601
6692

 

Item 9.

Date of Report

 

September
3,
2021

 

-3-