EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Blueprint

 

 Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

NEWS
RELEASE

 

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

 November
15, 2019

 

 

Eldorado Gold Releases Updated Reserve and Resource
Statement

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) today releases its updated Reserve and
Resource estimates as of September 30, 2019.

 

Highlights
 

●
Total Proven and
Probable Reserves of 384 million tonnes at 1.32 grams per tonne
gold containing 16.4 million ounces.1

●
Measured and
Indicated Resources and Inferred Resources at Lamaque increased by
191,000 ounces of gold and 198,000 ounces of gold, respectively,
while Proven and Probable Reserves increased by 19,000 ounces of
gold.

●
Inferred Resources
at the combined Perama Hill and Perama South projects increased by
758,000 ounces of gold.

●
Proven and Probable
Reserves for Kisladag will be further updated in Q1 2020 concurrent
with the completion of metallurgical testwork and an updated
Kisladag mineral reserve (to be described in a new NI 43-101
Technical Report).

 

Reserves and Resources Update
 

The
Company’s Proven and Probable gold Reserves totalled 16.4
million ounces as of September 30, 2019, compared to 16.9 million
ounces as of September 30, 2018.

 

 

 

Thousand Ounces
 

Proven
and Probable in-situ gold ounces as of September
30,2018

 16,937 

Mined ounces including mining
depletion during 20192

 -468 

Discovered
ounces and converted resources during 2019

 169 

Decrease
due to engineering and metallurgy

 -279 

Proven and probable in-situ gold ounces as of September 30,
2019

 16,359 

 

The
complete mineral Reserve and Resource data can be found at the end
of this release and includes the data for tonnes, grades and
ounces.

 

The
three percent decrease in Proven and Probable Reserve ounces was
primarily attributable to processed production. At Lamaque, the
last twelve months included successful construction, commissioning
and two quarters of solid operating results that have now been
supplemented with an increase in Reserve ounces. The reduction at
Efemcukuru was due to updated geotechnical information which
required a more dilutive mining method. This affected the economics
of some previously designed stopes, removing them from this
year’s reserves. Olympias also experienced a minor reduction,
the result of mined production and readjustment of dilution
assumptions in some parts of the orebody. The Perama South resource
increase resulted from an updated interpretation of the hosting
geology and mineralized horizon. Perama Hill and Perama South
Reserve and Resource data is now presented separately, whereas it
was previously shown on a combined basis.
 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, Serbia,
and Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock
Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).
 

1 A gold price of $1,250 per ounce was used in the
reserve estimates.

2 Mined ounces declared here are processed
ounces.

 

 
1

 

 

Eldorado Gold Mineral Reserves, as of September 30,
2019
 

 

 
2

 

 

Eldorado Gold Mineral Resources, as of September 30,
2019
 

 

Notes on Mineral Resources and Reserves
 

1.
Mineral reserves
and mineral resources are as of September 30, 2019.

2.
Mineral reserves
are included in the mineral resources.

3.
The mineral
reserves and mineral resources are disclosed on a total project
basis.

 

 
3

 

 

Mineral Reserve Notes
 

1.

Long Term Metal Price Assumptions

 

■
Gold price:
$1,250/oz

■
Silver price:
$16.00/oz (for Stratoni it was $11.42/oz Ag as governed by a
streaming agreement with Silver Wheaton (Caymans)
Ltd.)

■
Copper price:
$2.75/lb

■
Lead price:
$2,000/t

■
Zinc price:
$2,400/t

 

2.

Skouries

 

The
open pit design is based on permit limits, not metal prices,
therefore insensitive to a falling or rising metal price
environment. The underground designs were based on a Cu price of
$3.00/lb. The change in the Cu price to $2.75/lb has no impact to
the underground portion of the mineral reserves developed at that
time given that the margin on the lowest value ore has been
demonstrated to remain positive against the backdrop of updated
operating costs. Nevertheless, it is recognized that at the lower
Cu price, approximately 11 Mt of the mineral reserves have marginal
value, and a further decrease in metal prices would render these
uneconomic. The impact would not be felt until the latter part of
the project’s long minelife as the lower grade resources are
located on the periphery of the orebody and at depth. Furthermore,
the loss of these resources would not change the design philosophy
or placement of long-term underground infrastructure, the result
would be simply a shorter minelife.

 

3.

Cut-off Grades

 

Kisladag: $12.25
NSR ; Efemcukuru: 3.00 g/t Au; Lamaque: 3.50 g/t Au; Perama: 0.80
g/t Au; Tocantinzinho: 0.365 g/t Au; Skouries: $12.00 NSR (open
pit), $33.33 NSR (underground); Olympias: $133 NSR (drift and
fill), $116 NSR (long hole stoping); Stratoni: 13.5% Zn Equivalent
grade (=Zn%+Pb%*1.06+Ag%*113.5); Certej: 0.90 g/t Au Equivalent
grade (=Au(g/t)+Ag(g/t)*0.0121).

 

4.

Qualified Persons

 

●
Richard Miller,
P.Eng., Director, Mine Engineering (Open Pit) for the Company, is
responsible for the Skouries (open pit), Kisladag and Perama
mineral reserves;

 

●
John Nilsson,
P.Eng., of Nilsson Mine Services, is responsible for the Certej and
Tocantinzinho mineral reserves;

 

●
Colm Keogh, P.Eng.,
Operations Manager, Olympias for the Company, is responsible for
the Efemcukuru, Olympias, Stratoni, Skouries (underground) and
Lamaque mineral reserves.

 

Mineral Resource Notes
 

1.

Cut-off Grades

 

Kisladag: 0.30 g/t
Au for M+I, 0.35 g/t for Inferred; Efemcukuru: 2.5 g/t Au; Lamaque:
2.5 g/t Au; Perama and Perama South: 0.5 g/t Au; Tocantinzinho: 0.3
g/t Au; Certej: 0.7 g/t Au; Skouries: 0.20 g/t Au Equivalent grade
(open pit), 0.60 g/t Au Equivalent grade (underground) (=Au g/t +
1.6*Cu%); Olympias: $50 NSR; Piavitsa: 3.5 g/t Au; Sapes: 2.5 g/t
Au (underground), 1.0 g/t Au (open pit); Bolcana: 0.30 g/t Au
Equivalent grade (open pit), 0.65 g/t Au Equivalent grade
(underground) (=Au g/t + 1.27*Cu%); Stratoni: resources are
geologically constrained to massive sulfide material based on the
sharpness of the mineralized contacts and the high grade nature of
the mineralization
 

 
4

 

 

2.

Qualified Persons

 

●
Ertan Uludag,
P.Geo, Resource Geologist for the Company, is responsible for the
Efemcukuru, Olympias and Stratoni mineral resources;

●
Stephen Juras,
Ph.D., P.Geo., Director, Technical Services for the Company, is
responsible for the Lamaque, Kisladag, Certej, Skouries, Perama,
Piavitsa and Bolcana mineral resources;

●
Peter Lewis, Ph.D.,
P.Geo., Vice President, Exploration for the Company, is responsible
for the Sapes mineral resources;

●
Rafael Jaude
Gradim, P. Geo., Manager, Corporate Development - Technical
Evaluations for the Company, is responsible for the Tocantinzinho
mineral resources;

●
Sean McKinley,
P.Geo., Senior Geologist for the Company, is responsible for the
Perama South resources.

 

Note Regarding Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resources:

All Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources have been estimated in
accordance with the standards of the Canadian Institute of Mining,
Metallurgy and Petroleum ("CIM") and NI 43-101. Additional
information on the mineral properties mentioned in this news
release that are considered to be material mineral properties to
the Company are contained in Eldorado’s annual information
form for the year ended December 31, 2017 and the following
technical reports for each of those properties, all of which are
available under the Company's profile at
www.sedar.com:

 

●
Technical
report entitled "Technical Report, Kişladağ Milling
Project, Turkey” with an effective date of March 16,
2018.

●
Technical
report entitled "Technical Report on the Efemçukuru
Project” dated September 17, 2007 with an effective date of
August 1, 2007.

●
Technical
report entitled “Technical Report on the Olympias Project, Au
Pb Zn Ag Deposit, Northern Greece” dated July 14, 2011 with
an effective date of July 14, 2011.

●
Technical
report entitled “Technical Report, Skouries Project,
Greece” with an effective date of January 1,
2018.

●
Technical
report entitled “Technical Report, for the Lamaque Project,
Quebec, Canada’” an effective date of March 21,
2018.

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: our mineral reserves and resources, our guidance and
outlook, including expected production and recoveries of gold,
planned capital and exploration expenditures; our expectation as to
our future financial and operating performance, including future
cash flow, estimated all-in sustaining costs and cash operating
costs, expected metallurgical recoveries, gold price outlook; and
our strategy, plans and goals, including our proposed exploration,
development, construction, permitting and operating plans and
priorities, related timelines and schedules and proposed share
consolidation.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about mineral
reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries, the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities;
exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses; production, the
impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on our
business and the ability to achieve our goals. In particular,
except where otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of
existing business operations on substantially the same basis as
exists at the time of this release.

 

 
5

 

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: geopolitical and economic climate (global and local),
risks related to the updating of our resource and reserve models
and life of mine plans; mineral tenure and permits; gold and other
commodity price volatility; recoveries of gold and other metals;
results of test work; revised guidance; risks regarding potential
and pending litigation and arbitration proceedings relating to the
Company’s, business, properties and operations; expected
impact on reserves and the carrying value; mining operational and
development risk; foreign country operational risks; risks of
sovereign investment; regulatory risks and liabilities including,
regulatory environment and restrictions, and environmental
regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies between actual
and estimated production, mineral reserves and resources and
metallurgical testing and recoveries; risks related to the impact
of the acquisition and integration of Integra on the
Company’s operations; additional funding requirements;
currency fluctuations; community and non-governmental organization
actions; speculative nature of gold exploration; dilution; share
price volatility; competition; loss of key employees; and defective
title to mineral claims or properties, as well as those risk
factors discussed in the sections titled “Forward-Looking
Statements” and "Risk factors in our business" in the
Company's most recent Annual Information Form & Form 40-F. The
reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk discussion
in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR under our
Company name, which discussion is incorporated by reference in this
release, for a fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties
that affect the Company’s business and
operations.

 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.

 

Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have
demonstrated economic viability. With respect to “indicated
mineral resource” and “inferred mineral
resource”, there is a great amount of uncertainty as to their
existence and a great uncertainty as to their economic and legal
feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of a
“measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral
resource” or “inferred mineral resource” will
ever be upgraded to a higher category.

 

Except as otherwise noted, scientific and technical information
contained in this press release was reviewed and approved by Paul
Skayman, FAusIMM, Chief Operating Officer for the Company, and a
"qualified person" under NI 43-101.

 

Cautionary Note to US Investors Concerning Estimates of Measured,
Indicated and Inferred Resources

Technical disclosure regarding the Company’s properties
included herein (the “Technical Disclosure”) has not
been prepared in accordance with the requirements of U.S.
securities laws. Without limiting the foregoing, the Technical
Disclosure uses terms that comply with reporting standards in
Canada and certain estimates are made in accordance with NI 43-101.
NI 43-101 is a rule developed by the Canadian Securities
Administrators that establishes standards for all public disclosure
an issuer makes of scientific and technical information concerning
mineral projects. Unless otherwise indicated, all mineral reserve
and mineral resource estimates contained in the Technical
Disclosure have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 and the
Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum
Classification System. These standards differ significantly from
the requirements of SEC Industry Guide 7, and resource information
contained in the Technical Disclosure may not be comparable to
similar information disclosed by U.S. companies.

 

The definitions of proven and probable reserves used in NI 43-101
differ from the definitions in SEC Industry Guide 7. In addition,
the terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral
resource”, “indicated mineral resource” and
“inferred mineral resource” are defined in and required
to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined
terms under SEC Industry Guide 7 and U.S. companies have
historically not been permitted to disclose mineral resources of
any category in reports and registration statements filed with the
SEC.

 

 
6

 

 

Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of
mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into
reserves. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great
amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty
as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed
that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be
upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian securities laws,
estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of
feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases.
Additionally,

disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is
permitted disclosure under Canadian securities laws, however the
SEC Industry Guide 7 historically only permitted issuers to report
mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by
SEC standards as in place tonnage and grade without reference to
unit measurements. Accordingly, information contained in the
Technical Disclosure may not be comparable to similar information
made public by U.S. companies subject to the reporting and
disclosure requirements of U.S. federal securities laws and the
rules and regulations

thereunder that disclose mineral reserves and mineral resources in
accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7.
 

 

Contact
 

Investor Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018
or 1.888.353.8166

peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications and Government
Relations

604.601.6679
or 1.888.363.8166

louiseb@eldoradogold.com

 

 
7