EX-99.1
2
fins.htm
ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017

 JA Filed by Filing Services Canada Inc. 403-717-3898

 

 

 

 

 

 

Consolidated Financial Statements

 

December 31, 2017 and
2016

 

(Expressed in thousands
of U.S. dollars)

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

Management’s Responsibility for Financial
Reporting

 

The management of Eldorado Gold Corporation
is responsible for the integrity and fair presentation of the financial information contained in this annual report. Where appropriate,
the financial information, including financial statements, reflects amounts based on management’s best estimates and judgments.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board. Financial information presented elsewhere in the annual report is consistent with that disclosed in
the financial statements.

 

Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Management has established and maintains a system of internal
accounting control designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded from loss or unauthorized use, financial
information is reliable and accurate and transactions are properly recorded and executed in accordance with management’s
authorization. This system includes established policies and procedures, the selection and training of qualified personnel and
an organization providing for appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of responsibilities. Any system of internal control
over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be
effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

 

Management
has a process in place to evaluate internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013) in Internal Control – Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment,
management has concluded that as at December 31, 2017, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective.
The Company acquired Integra Gold Corporation during 2017, and management
excluded from its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2017, Integra Gold Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting associated with total assets of $535,609 included
in the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

 

The Board of Directors oversees management’s
responsibility for financial reporting and internal control systems through an Audit Committee, which is composed entirely of independent
directors. The Audit Committee meets periodically with management, the Company’s outside advisors and the independent auditors
to review the scope and results of the annual audit and to review the financial statements and related financial reporting and
internal control matters before the financial statements are approved by the Board of Directors and submitted to the Company’s
shareholders.

 

KPMG, an independent registered public
accounting firm, appointed by the shareholders, has audited the Company’s financial statements in accordance with Canadian
generally accepted auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and has
expressed their opinion in their report titled “Independent Auditors’ Report of Registered Public Accounting Firm”.
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2017 has also been audited
by KPMG, and their opinion is included in their report titled “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm”.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 KPMG LLP
 Chartered Professional Accountants
 PO Box 10426 777 Dunsmuir Street
 Vancouver BC V7Y 1K3
 Canada
 
 Telephone (604) 691-3000
 Fax (604) 691-3031
 Internet www.kpmg.ca

 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareholders and Board of
Directors of Eldorado Gold Corporation

Opinion on the Consolidated
Financial Statements

 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
financial statements of Eldorado Gold Corporation (the “Company”), which comprise the consolidated balance sheets as
at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the consolidated income statements, statements of comprehensive income, changes
in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and the related notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies
and other explanatory information (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”).

 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company as at December 31, 2017
and December 31, 2016, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.

 

Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting

 

We also have audited, in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated March 21, 2018
expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Basis for Opinion 

A - Management’s Responsibility
for the Consolidated Financial Statements

Management is responsible for the
preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and for such internal
control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

B - Auditors’ Responsibility

Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with
Canadian generally accepted auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States) (“PCAOB”). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.

KPMG LLP
is a Canadian limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with
KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity.

KPMG Canada
provides services to KPMG LLP.

 
 
 

 

 

Those standards also require that
we comply with ethical requirements, including independence. We are required to be independent with respect to the Company in
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated
financial statements in Canada, the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB. 

 

An audit includes performing procedures
to assess the risks of material misstatements of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing
procedures to respond to those risks. Such procedures included obtaining and examining, on a test basis, audit evidence regarding
the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including
the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the Company’s preparation and fair presentation
of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.

An audit also includes evaluating
the appropriateness of accounting policies and principles used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.

We believe that the audit evidence
we have obtained in our audits is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our audit opinion.

 

KPMG LLP (Signed)

 

We have served as the Company's auditor since
2009.

 

Vancouver, Canada

 

March 21, 2018

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 KPMG LLP
 Chartered Professional Accountants
 PO Box 10426 777 Dunsmuir Street
 Vancouver BC V7Y 1K3
 Canada
 
 Telephone (604) 691-3000
 Fax (604) 691-3031
 Internet www.kpmg.ca

 

 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareholders and the Board
of Directors of Eldorado Gold Corporation

Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting 

We have audited Eldorado Gold
Corporation’s (the “Company”) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on
the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission.

In our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission.

The Company acquired Integra Gold
Corporation during 2017, and management excluded from its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, Integra Gold Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting associated
with total assets of $535,609,000 included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2017. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company also excluded an evaluation of the internal
control over financial reporting of Integra Gold Corporation.

Report on the Consolidated
Financial Statements

We also have audited, in accordance
with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States) (“PCAOB”), the consolidated financial statements of the Company which comprise the consolidated balance sheets
as at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the consolidated income statements, statements of comprehensive income, changes
in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and the related notes comprising a summary of significant accounting policies
and other explanatory information (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"), and our report
dated March 21, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

Basis for Opinion 

The Company’s management
is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying report titled “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results of Operations – Internal controls over financial reporting”. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We are a public accounting firm
registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities
laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB and in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Canada.

KPMG LLP
is a Canadian limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with
KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity.

KPMG Canada
provides services to KPMG LLP.

 
 
 

 

We conducted our audit in accordance
with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of internal control
over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that
a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations
of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

A company’s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

KPMG LLP (Signed)

Chartered Professional Accountants

Vancouver, Canada

March 21, 2018

 
 
 

Eldorado Gold Corporation

Consolidated
Balance Sheets

(Expressed in thousands of U.S.
dollars)

 
 
 
 
 Note
 December 31, 2017
 December 31, 2016
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 $
 $
 

 ASSETS
 
 
 
 

 Current assets
 
 
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
 6
 479,501 
 883,171 
 

 Term deposits
 
 5,508 
 5,292 
 

 Restricted cash 
 
 310 
 240 
 

 Marketable securities 
 
 5,010 
 28,327 
 

 Accounts receivable and other
 7
 78,344 
 54,315 
 

 Inventories
 8
 168,844 
 120,830 
 

 
 
 737,517 
 1,092,175 
 

 Restricted cash and other assets
 10
 22,902 
 48,297 
 

 Defined benefit pension plan
 16
 9,919 
 11,620 
 

 Property, plant and equipment
 11
 4,227,397 
 3,645,827 
 

 Goodwill
 12
 92,591 
 - 
 

 
 
 5,090,326 
 4,797,919 
 

 LIABILITIES & EQUITY
 
 
 
 

 Current liabilities
 
 
 
 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 13
 110,651 
 90,705 
 

 Current portion of asset retirement obligation
 15
 3,489 
 - 
 

 
 
 114,140 
 90,705 
 

 Debt
 14
 593,783 
 591,589 
 

 Defined benefit pension plan
 16
 13,599 
 10,882 
 

 Asset retirement obligations
 15
 96,195 
 89,778 
 

 Deferred income tax liabilities
 17
 549,127 
 443,501 
 

 
 
 1,366,844 
 1,226,455 
 

 Equity
 
 
 
 

 Share capital
 18
 3,007,924 
 2,819,101 
 

 Treasury stock
 
 (11,056)
 (7,794)
 

 Contributed surplus
 
 2,616,593 
 2,606,567 
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 (21,350)
 (7,172)
 

 Deficit
 
 (1,948,569)
 (1,928,024)
 

 Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
 
 3,643,542 
 3,482,678 
 

 Attributable to non-controlling interests
 
 79,940 
 88,786 
 

 
 
 3,723,482 
 3,571,464 
 

 
 
 5,090,326 
 4,797,919 
 

Approved on behalf of the Board of Directors

 

(Signed) John Webster
Director (Signed) George Burns Director

Date of approval: March
21, 2018

 

 

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated financial statements.

 
 
 

Eldorado Gold Corporation

Consolidated
Income Statements 

(Expressed in thousands of U.S.
dollars except per share amounts)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 For the year ended December 31
 Note
 2017
 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 $
 $

 Revenue
 
 
 

 Metal sales
 
 391,406 
 432,727 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cost of sales
 
 
 

 Production costs
 26
 192,740 
 194,669 

 Inventory write-down 
 8
 444 
 - 

 Depreciation and amortization
 
 72,130 
 74,887 

 
 
 265,314 
 269,556 

 Gross profit
 
 126,092 
 163,171 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Exploration expenses
 
 38,261 
 18,773 

 Mine standby costs 
 
 4,886 
 16,140 

 Other operating items
 
 3,658 
 - 

 General and administrative expenses
 
 54,574 
 37,851 

 Acquisition costs
 5a
 4,270 
 - 

 Defined benefit pension plan expense
 16
 3,451 
 5,602 

 Share based payments
 19
 11,218 
 10,559 

 Write-down of assets
 11
 46,697 
 4,529 

 Foreign exchange loss (gain)
 
 (2,382)
 2,708 

 Operating profit (loss)
 
 (38,541)
 67,009 

 
 
 
 

 Loss on disposal of assets
 
 (462)
 (2,121)

 Gain (loss) on marketable securities and other investments
 
 27,425 
 (4,881)

 Other income
 
 17,575 
 243 

 Asset retirement obligation accretion
 15
 (2,006)
 (1,795)

 Interest and financing costs
 
 (3,199)
 (9,757)

 
 
 
 

 Profit from continuing operations before income tax
 
 792 
 48,698 

 Income tax expense 
 17
 19,383 
 56,205 

 Loss from continuing operations 
 
 (18,591)
 (7,507)

 Loss from discontinued operations 
 5b
 (2,797)
 (339,369)

 Loss for the year
 
 (21,388)
 (346,876)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Attributable to:
 
 
 

 Shareholders of the Company
 
 (9,935)
 (344,151)

 Non-controlling interests
 
 (11,453)
 (2,725)

 Loss for the year
 
 (21,388)
 (346,876)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Loss attributable to shareholders of the Company
 
 
 

 Continuing operations
 
 (7,138)
 (2,683)

 Discontinued operations
 
 (2,797)
 (341,468)

 
 
 (9,935)
 (344,151)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Weighted average number of shares outstanding (thousands)
 27
 
 

 Basic
 
 
 
 
 753,565
 716,587

 Diluted
 
 
 
 
 753,565
 716,593

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Loss per share attributable to shareholders 
 
 
 

 of the Company:
 
 
 
 
 

 Basic loss per share 
 
 (0.01)
 (0.48)

 Diluted loss per share
 
 (0.01)
 (0.48)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Loss per share attributable to shareholders 
 
 
 

 of the Company - continuing operations:
 
 
 

 Basic loss per share 
 
 (0.01)
 (0.00)

 Diluted loss per share
 
 (0.01)
 (0.00)

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated financial statements.

 
 
 

 

Eldorado Gold Corporation

Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income

(Expressed in thousands of U.S.
dollars)

 

 For the year ended December 31
 
 Note
 2017
 2016

 
 
 
 $
 $

 
 
 
 
 

 Loss for the year
 
 
 (21,388)
 (346,876)

 Other comprehensive income (loss):
 
 
 
 

 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets
 
 15,878 
 11,115 

 Income tax on change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets
 
 (2,595)
 (1,428)

 Reversal of unrealized gains on available-for-sale investments on 
 
 
 
 

 acquistion of Integra, net of taxes
 
 
 (24,340)
 - 

 Transfer of realized loss on disposal of availabe-for-sale financial assets
 
 
 - 
 4,901 

 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans
 
 16
 (3,121)
 (1,188)

 Total other comprehensive income (loss) for the year
 
 
 (14,178)
 13,400 

 Total comprehensive loss for the year
 
 
 (35,566)
 (333,476)

 
 
 
 
 

 Attributable to:
 
 
 
 

 Shareholders of the Company
 
 
 (24,113)
 (330,751)

 Non-controlling interests
 
 
 (11,453)
 (2,725)

 
 
 
 (35,566)
 (333,476)

 

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated financial statements.

 
 
 

Eldorado Gold Corporation

Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows

(Expressed in thousands of U.S.
dollars)

 

 For the year ended December 31
 
 Note
 2017
 2016

 
 
 
 $ 
 $ 

 Cash flows generated from (used in):
 
 
 
 

 Operating activities
 
 
 
 

 Loss for the year from continuing operations
 
 
 (18,591)
 (7,507)

 Items not affecting cash:
 
 
 
 

 Asset retirement obligation accretion
 
 
 2,006 
 1,795 

 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
 72,130 
 74,887 

 Unrealized foreign exchange loss (gain)
 
 
 (471)
 1,191 

 Deferred income tax expense (recovery)
 
 
 (19,849)
 9,039 

 Loss on disposal of assets
 
 
 462 
 2,121 

 Write-down of assets
 
 11
 46,697 
 4,529 

 (Gain) loss on marketable securities and other investments
 
 
 (27,425)
 4,881 

 Share based payments
 
 
 11,218 
 10,559 

 Defined benefit pension plan expense
 
 
 3,451 
 5,602 

 
 
 
 69,628 
 107,097 

 Property reclamation payments
 
 
 (3,097)
 (2,662)

 Changes in non-cash working capital
 
 20
 (35,755)
 32,295 

 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations
 
 
 30,776 
 136,730 

 Net cash used by operating activities of discontinued operations
 
 
 (2,797)
 (23,067)

 
 
 
 
 

 Investing activities
 
 
 
 

 Net cash paid on acquisition of subsidiary
 
 5a
 (121,664)
 (603)

 Purchase of property, plant and equipment
 
 
 (345,883)
 (297,667)

 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment
 
 252 
 4,916 

 Proceeds from sale of mining interest, net of transaction costs
 
 
 - 
 792,511 

 Proceeds on pre-commercial production sales and tailings retreatment
 
 
 38,200 
 3,708 

 Purchase of marketable securities
 
 
 - 
 (2,526)

 Proceeds from the sale of marketable securities
 
 
 - 
 3,665 

 Value added taxes related to mineral property expenditures, net 
 
 
 22,804 
 - 

 Investment in term deposits
 
 
 (216)
 (910)

 Decrease (increase) in restricted cash
 
 
 (9,817)
 9 

 Net cash provided (used) by investing activities of continuing operations
 
 (416,324)
 503,103 

 Net cash used by investing activities of discontinued operations
 
 
 - 
 (21,784)

 
 
 
 
 

 Financing activities
 
 
 
 

 Issuance of common shares for cash
 
 
 586 
 - 

 Dividend paid to shareholders
 
 
 (10,610)
 - 

 Purchase of treasury stock
 
 
 (5,301)
 - 

 Long-term and bank debt proceeds
 
 
 - 
 70,000 

 Long-term and bank debt repayments
 
 
 - 
 (70,000)

 Net cash used by financing activities of continuing operations
 
 
 (15,325)
 - 

 
 
 
 
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 (403,670)
 594,982 

 Cash and cash equivalents - beginning of year
 
 
 883,171 
 288,189 

 Cash and cash equivalents - end of year
 
 
 479,501 
 883,171 

 

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated financial statements.

 
 
 

Eldorado Gold Corporation

Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Equity

(Expressed in thousands of U.S.
dollars)

 For the year ended December 31,
 Note
 2017
 
 2016

 
 
 $
 $

 Share capital 
 
 
 
 

 Balance beginning of year
 
 2,819,101 
 
 5,319,101 

 Shares issued upon exercise of share options, for cash
 
 586 
 
 - 

 Transfer of contributed surplus on exercise of options
 
 176 
 
 - 

 Shares issued on acquistion of Integra Gold Corp.
 5a
 188,061 
 
 - 

 Capital reduction
 
 - 
 
 (2,500,000)

 Balance end of year
 
 3,007,924 
 
 2,819,101 

 
 
 
 
 

 Treasury stock
 
 
 
 

 Balance beginning of year
 
 (7,794)
 
 (10,211)

 Purchase of treasury stock
 
 (5,301)
 
 - 

 Shares redeemed upon exercise of restricted share units
 
 2,039 
 
 2,417 

 Balance end of year
 
 (11,056)
 
 (7,794)

 
 
 
 
 

 Contributed surplus
 
 
 
 

 Balance beginning of year
 
 2,606,567 
 
 47,236 

 Share based payments
 
 12,241 
 
 10,264 

 Shares redeemed upon exercise of restricted share units
 
 (2,039)
 
 (2,417)

 Recognition of other non-current liability and related costs
 
 - 
 
 (1,416)

 Reversal of other current liability and related costs
 
 - 
 
 52,900 

 Transfer to share capital on exercise of options
 
 (176)
 
 - 

 Capital reduction 
 
 - 
 
 2,500,000 

 Balance end of year
 
 2,616,593 
 
 2,606,567 

 
 
 
 
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
 
 

 Balance beginning of year
 
 (7,172)
 
 (20,572)

 Other comprehensive loss for the year
 
 (14,178)
 
 13,400 

 Balance end of year
 
 (21,350)
 
 (7,172)

 
 
 
 
 

 Deficit
 
 
 
 

 Balance beginning of year
 
 (1,928,024)
 
 (1,583,873)

 Dividends paid
 
 (10,610)
 
 - 

 Loss attributable to shareholders of the Company
 
 (9,935)
 
 (344,151)

 Balance end of year
 
 (1,948,569)
 
 (1,928,024)

 Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
 
 3,643,542 
 
 3,482,678 

 
 
 
 
 

 Non-controlling interests
 
 
 
 

 Balance beginning of year
 
 88,786 
 
 169,755 

 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests
 
 (11,453)
 
 (2,725)

 Increase during the period
 
 2,607 
 
 3,257 

 Decrease due to sale of China Business and others
 
 - 
 
 (81,501)

 Balance end of year
 
 79,940 
 
 88,786 

 
 
 
 
 

 Total equity
 
 3,723,482 
 
 3,571,464 

 

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these consolidated financial statements.

 
 
 

Eldorado Gold Corporation

Notes to the
Consolidated financial statements

(Expressed in thousands of U.S.
dollars, unless otherwise stated)

1.General Information 

Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado”
or the “Company”) is a primarily gold exploration, development and mining company. The Company has operations and ongoing
exploration and development projects in Turkey, Greece, Brazil, Canada, Romania and Serbia. On July 10, 2017, the Company finalized
its acquisition of Integra Gold Corporation (“Integra”), a Canadian company with mineral assets in Quebec, Canada (note
5a). The Company disposed of its China operations (“China Business”) in 2016. Details of the sale are included in note
5b.

Eldorado is a public company
which is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in Canada.

 

2.Basis of preparation

These consolidated financial
statements, including comparatives, have been prepared using accounting policies in compliance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (“IFRS”) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).

Certain prior period balances
have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

The consolidated financial statements
were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on March 21, 2018.

Upcoming changes in
accounting standards

The following standards have
been published and are mandatory for Eldorado’s annual accounting periods no earlier than January 1, 2018:

·IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based
Payments’ – In June 2016, the
IASB issued final amendments to this standard. IFRS 2 clarifies the classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions.
These amendments deal with variations in the final settlement arrangements including: (a) accounting for cash-settled share-based
payment transactions that include a performance condition, (b) classification of share-based payment transactions with net settlement
features, and (c) accounting for modifications of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity. IFRS 2 is effective
for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company plans to apply this
standard at the date it becomes effective. The Company does not expect the impact of these changes to be material.

·IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – This standard
was published in July 2014 and replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.
IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including a new expected credit
loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets, and the new general hedge accounting requirements. It also carries forward
the guidance on recognition and derecognition of financial instruments from IAS 39. IFRS 9 is effective for annual reporting periods
beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Company plans to apply this standard at the date it becomes
effective.

The Company has completed its
assessment of the impact of IFRS 9 and expects the following impacts upon adoption:

 
i) the classification of its financial
assets and liabilities to remain consistent under the new standard, with the exception of equity securities. The Company will make
the irrevocable election to continue to measure its long-term investments in equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive
income. As a result and following the new standard, all realized and unrealized gains and losses will be recognized permanently
in other comprehensive income with no reclassification to profit or loss upon impairment and disposition.

 
ii) the Company does not expect to apply
hedge accounting to hedge components of its non-financial items.

 
iii) the Company does not expect a material
impact to its financial statements from any of the other changes to this standard, including the new expected credit loss model
for calculating impairment on financial assets.

 
 (1)
 

 

2.Basis of preparation (continued)

·IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ –
This standard contains a single model that applies to contracts with customers and two approaches to recognising revenue: at a
point in time or over time. The model features a contract-based five-step analysis of transactions to determine whether, how much
and when revenue is recognized. New estimates and judgmental thresholds have been introduced, which may affect the amount and/or
timing of revenue recognized. This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with
early adoption permitted. The Company plans to apply this standard at the date it becomes effective and will be adopting the modified
retrospective approach.

The Company has performed a detailed review and
assessment of its sales contracts, including doré and concentrate sale agreements, and has concluded that no adjustments
are required in respect of current revenue recognition practices. The Company will have additional disclosures required by the
new standard, in particular in relation to the impact of provisional pricing adjustments on its concentrate sales.

·IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ – This standard was published
in January 2016 and replaces the existing guidance in IAS 17, ‘Leases’. IFRS 16 introduces a single accounting
model for lessees and for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee
will be required to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing its right to use the underlying asset, and a lease liability,
representing its obligation to make lease payments. The accounting treatment for lessors will remain largely the same as under
IAS 17. IFRS 16 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted.

The Company plans to apply this
standard at the date it becomes effective and expects that, under this standard, the present value of most lease commitments will
be shown as a liability on the balance sheet together with an asset representing the right of use, including those classified as
operating leases under the existing standard. This implies higher amounts of depreciation expense and interest on lease liabilities
that will be recorded in the Company’s profit and loss results. Additionally, a corresponding reduction in general and administrative
costs and/or production costs is expected. The extent of the impact of adopting the standard has not yet been determined.

The Company is currently working
in the development of its implementation plan and expects to report more detailed information, including estimated quantitative
financial impacts, if material, in its consolidated financial statements as the effective date approaches.

There are other new standards,
amendments to standards and interpretations that have been published and are not yet effective. The Company believes they will
have no material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

 

3.Significant accounting policies

The principal accounting policies
set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements, and have been applied
consistently by all Eldorado entities.

3.1 Basis of
presentation and principles of consolidation

(i) Subsidiaries
and business combinations

Subsidiaries are entities controlled
by Eldorado. Control exists when Eldorado is exposed to, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. In assessing control, potential voting rights that
currently are exercisable are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial
statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.

The acquisition method of accounting
is used to account for business acquisitions. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity
instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.

 

 
 (2)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

Identifiable assets acquired
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the
acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.

The excess of the cost of acquisition
over the fair value of Eldorado’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition
is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference, or gain is recognised directly in the income statement.

Transaction costs, other than
those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, which the Company incurs in connection with a business combination,
are expensed as incurred.

The most significant wholly-owned
and partially-owned subsidiaries of Eldorado, are presented below:

 Subsidiary
 Location
 Ownership interest
 Status
 Operations and development projects owned

 Tüprag Metal Madencilik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS (“Tüprag”)
 Turkey
 100%
 Consolidated
 
 Kişladağ Mine
 Efemçukuru Mine

 Hellas Gold SA (“Hellas”)
 Greece
 95%
 Consolidated
 
 Stratoni Mine
 Olympias Mine
 Skouries Project

 Integra Gold Corporation
 Canada
 100%
 Consolidated
 Lamaque Project

 Thracean Gold Mining SA
 Greece
 100%
 Consolidated
 Perama Hill Project

 Thrace Minerals SA
 Greece
 100%
 Consolidated
 Sapes Project

 Unamgen Mineração e Metalurgia S/A 
 Brazil
 100%
 Consolidated
 Vila Nova Iron Ore Mine

 Brazauro Resources Corporation (“Brazauro”)
 Brazil
 100%
 Consolidated
 Tocantinzinho Project

 Deva Gold SA (“Deva”)
 Romania
 80.5%
 Consolidated
 Certej Project

 

 

(ii) Discontinued
operations

A discontinued operation is
a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations
that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.

Discontinued operations are
presented on the income statement as a separate line.

(iii) Assets
held for sale

Assets and businesses classified
as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses on initial classification
as held for sale and gains or losses on subsequent re-measurements are included in the income statement. No depreciation is charged
on assets and businesses classified as held for sale.

Assets and businesses are classified
as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather than through
continuing use. The asset or business must be available for immediate sale and the sale must be highly probable within one year.

(iv) Investments
in associates (equity accounted for investees)

Associates are those entities
where Eldorado has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant
influence is presumed to exist when the Company holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of another entity.

Associates are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and
are recognized initially at cost. The consolidated financial statements include Eldorado’s share of the income and expenses
and equity movements of equity accounted investees, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of Eldorado,
from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. 

 
 (3)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

When the Company’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted
investee, the carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to nil and the recognition of further
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Company has an obligation to make, or has made, payments on behalf of the
investee.

At each balance sheet date, each investment in associates is assessed for indicators
of impairment.

(v) Transactions with
non-controlling interests

For
purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share of the carrying
value of net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests
are also recorded in equity.

Eldorado
treats transactions in the ordinary course of business with non-controlling interests as transactions with third parties.

(vi) Transactions
eliminated on consolidation 

Intra-company and intercompany
balances and transactions, and any unrealized income and expenses arising from all such transactions, are eliminated in preparing
the consolidated financial statements.

3.2 Foreign currency
translation

(i) Functional
and presentation currency

Items included in the financial
statements of each of Eldorado’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the
entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, which is the Company’s
functional and presentation currency, as well as the functional currency of all significant subsidiaries.

(ii) Transactions
and balances

Foreign currency transactions
are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currency at the exchange
rate at that date. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income statement.

 3.3 Property,
plant and equipment

(i) Cost and valuation

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. When an asset
is disposed of, it is derecognized and the difference between its carrying value and net sales proceeds is recognized as a gain
or loss in the income statement.

(ii) Property,
plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment
include expenditures incurred on properties under development, significant payments related to the acquisition of land and mineral
rights and property, plant and equipment which are recorded at cost on initial acquisition. Cost includes the purchase price and
the directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring an asset to the location and condition necessary
for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.

(iii) Depreciation

Mine development costs, property,
plant and equipment and other mining assets whose estimated useful life is the same as the remaining life of the mine are depreciated,
depleted and amortized over a mine’s estimated life using the units-of-production method calculated based on proven and probable
reserves.

 
 (4)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

Capitalized development costs
related to a multi-pit operation are amortized on a pit-by-pit basis over the pit’s estimated life using the units-of-production
method calculated based on proven and probable reserves related to each pit.

Property, plant and equipment
and other assets whose estimated useful lives are less than the remaining life of the mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Where components of an asset
have a different useful life and cost that is significant to the total cost of the asset, depreciation is calculated on each separate
component.

Depreciation methods, useful
lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each year and adjusted if appropriate.

(iv) Subsequent
costs

Expenditure on major maintenance or repairs includes
the cost of replacement parts of assets and overhaul costs. Where an asset or part of an asset is replaced and it is probable that
further future economic benefit will flow to the Company, the expenditure is capitalized. Similarly, overhaul costs associated
with major maintenance are capitalized when it is probable that future economic benefit will flow to the Company and any remaining
costs of previous overhauls relating to the same asset are derecognized. All other expenditures are expensed as incurred.

(v) Deferred stripping
costs

Stripping costs incurred during the production
phase of a mine are considered production costs and included in the cost of inventory produced during the period in which the stripping
costs are incurred, unless the stripping activity can be shown to provide access to additional mineral reserves, in which case
the stripping costs are capitalized. Stripping costs incurred to prepare the ore body for extraction are capitalized as mine development
costs (pre-stripping). Capitalized stripping costs are amortized on a unit-of-production basis over the proven and probable reserves
to which they relate.

(vi) Borrowing costs

Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except
where they are directly attributable to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets requiring a substantial
period of time to prepare for their intended future use. Interest is capitalized up to the date when substantially all the activities
necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are complete.

Investment income arising on the temporary investment
of proceeds from borrowings is offset against borrowing costs being capitalized.

(vii) Mine
standby and restructuring costs

Mine standby costs and costs related to restructuring
a mining operation are charged directly to expense in the period incurred. Mine standby costs include labour, maintenance and mine
support costs during temporary shutdowns of a mine or development project.

3.4 Exploration,
evaluation and development expenditures

(i) Exploration

Exploration expenditures reflect the costs related
to the initial search for mineral deposits with economic potential or obtaining more information about existing mineral deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically include costs associated with the acquisition of mineral licenses, prospecting, sampling, mapping,
diamond drilling and other work involved in searching for ore. All expenditures relating to exploration activities are expensed
as incurred except for the costs associated with the acquisition of mineral licenses which are capitalized.

(ii) Evaluation

Evaluation expenditures reflect costs incurred
at projects related to establishing the technical and commercial viability of mineral deposits identified through exploration or
acquired through a business combination or asset acquisition.

 
 (5)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

Evaluation expenditures include
the cost of:

a)establishing the volume and grade of deposits through drilling of core samples, trenching and
sampling activities in an ore body that is classified as either a mineral resource or a proven and probable reserve;

b)determining the optimal methods of extraction and metallurgical and treatment processes; 

c)studies related to surveying, transportation and infrastructure requirements;

d)permitting activities; and 

e)economic evaluations to determine whether development of the mineralized material is commercially
justified, including scoping, prefeasibility and final feasibility studies.

Evaluation expenditures are capitalized if management
determines that there is evidence to support probability of generating positive economic returns in the future. A mineral resource
is considered to have economic potential when it is expected the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extraction of
the mineral resource is demonstrable considering long-term metal prices. Therefore, prior to capitalizing such costs, management
determines that the following conditions have been met:

§ 
There is a probable future benefit that will contribute to future cash inflows;

§ 
The Company can obtain the benefit and control access to it; and

§ 
The transaction or event giving rise to the benefit has already occurred.

The evaluation phase is complete once technical
feasibility of the extraction of the mineral deposit has been determined through preparation of a reserve and resource statement,
including a mining plan as well as receipt of required permits and approval of the Board of Directors to proceed with development
of the mine.

(iii) Development

Development expenditures are those that are incurred
during the phase of preparing a mineral deposit for extraction and processing. These include pre-stripping costs and underground
development costs to gain access to the ore that is suitable for sustaining commercial mining, preparing land, construction of
plant, equipment and buildings and costs of commissioning the mine and mill.

Expenditures incurred on development projects
continue to be capitalized until the mine and mill moves into the production stage. The Company assess each mine construction project
to determine when a mine moves into production stage. The criteria used to assess the start date are determined based on the nature
of each mine construction project, such as the complexity of a plant or its location. Various relevant criteria are considered
to assess when the mine is substantially complete and ready for its intended use and moved into the production stage. Some of the
criteria considered would include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the level of capital expenditures compared to construction
cost estimates; (2) the completion of a reasonable period of testing of mine plant and equipment; (3) the ability to produce minerals
in saleable form (within specification); and (4) the ability to sustain ongoing production of minerals.

Alternatively, if the factors that impact the
technical feasibility and commercial viability of a project change and no longer support the probability of generating positive
economic returns in the future, expenditures will no longer be capitalized.

3.5 Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of
an acquisition over the fair value of Eldorado's share of the net assets of the acquired business at the date of acquisition. When
the excess is negative (negative goodwill), it is recognized immediately in income. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries and
businesses is shown separately as goodwill in the financial statements. Goodwill on acquisition of associates is included in investments
in significantly influenced companies and tested for impairment as part of the overall investment.

Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated
impairment losses and tested annually for impairment. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. The impairment testing is
performed annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.

 
 (6)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units
for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash generating units or groups of cash generating units
(“CGU”s) that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. If the composition
of one or more cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated changes due to a re-organization, the goodwill is re-allocated
to the units affected.

The gain or loss on disposal
of an entity includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.

3.6 Impairment
of non-financial assets

Other long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment test is performed
when the impairment indicators demonstrate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable and it is reviewed at least annually.

An impairment loss is recognized for the amount
by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s
fair value less cost to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels
for which there are separately identifiable cash flows or CGUs.

Value in use is determined as the present value
of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or CGU based on the detailed mine and/or production plans. The estimated
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

Fair value less cost to sell is the amount obtainable
from the sale of an asset or CGU in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of
disposal. For mining assets, fair value less cost to sell is often estimated using a discounted cash flow approach because a fair
value is not readily available from an active market or binding sale agreement. Estimated future cash flows are calculated using
estimated future prices, mineral reserves and resources, operating and capital costs. All assumptions used are those that an independent
market participant would consider appropriate. Non-financial assets other than goodwill impaired in prior periods are reviewed
for possible reversal of the impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that an item is no longer impaired.

3.7 Financial assets

(i) Classification

The Company classifies its financial assets in
the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale. The classification
depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial
assets at initial recognition.

(a)
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss

Financial assets at fair value through profit
or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the
purpose of selling in the short-term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.

(b)
Loans and receivables

Loans
and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities of greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting
period, which are classified as non-current assets. Eldorado’s loans and receivables comprise cash and cash equivalents,
restricted cash, accounts receivable and other and other assets in the balance sheet.

 
 (7)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

(c)
Available-for-sale financial assets

Available-for-sale
financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it
within 12 months of the end of the reporting period. Eldorado’s available-for-sale financial assets comprise marketable securities
not held for the purpose of trading.

(ii) Recognition and
measurement

Financial
assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through
profit or loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction
costs are expensed in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments
have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 

Available-for-sale
financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables
are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Gains
or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’ category
are presented in the income statement within ‘Gain or loss on marketable securities’ in the period in which they arise.
Dividend income from ‘financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’ is recognised in the income statement
as part of other income when Eldorado’s right to receive payments is established.

Gains
or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognized in other comprehensive income
and presented within equity. When marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated
fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement as ‘Gain or loss on
marketable securities’.

(iii) Impairment
of financial assets

The
Company assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial
assets is impaired. A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there
is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset
(a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial
asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.

An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortized cost is calculated
as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original
effective interest rate. An impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its
fair value. In the case of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair
value of the security below its cost is also evidence that the assets are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale
financial assets, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value,
less any impairment loss on that financial asset that was previously recognized in profit or loss – is removed from equity
and recognized in the income statement.

All
impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. Any cumulative loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset recognized
previously in equity is transferred to profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively
to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized. Impairment losses recognized for equity securities are not reversed.

 
 (8)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

3.8 Derivative financial
instruments and hedging activities

Derivatives are recognized initially at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into. Subsequent to initial
recognition, derivatives are remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising any resulting gain or loss depends on whether
the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.

Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately
in the income statement.

(a)
Fair value hedge

Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement,
together with any changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risk.

(b)
Cash-flow hedge

The effective portions of changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash-flow hedges are
recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.

Amounts accumulated in the hedge reserve are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged items will affect
profit or loss (for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). If a forecast transaction that is hedged results
in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in
the hedge reserve are transferred from the reserve and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.

When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative
gain or loss existing in the hedge reserve at that time remains in the reserve and is recognised when the forecast transaction
is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain
or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement.

The Company has not designated any derivative
contracts as hedges and therefore has not applied hedge accounting in these financial statements.

3.9 Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present
location and condition are accounted for as follows:

i)Product inventory consists of stockpiled ore, ore on leach pads, crushed ore, in-circuit material
at properties with milling or processing operations, gold concentrate, other metal concentrate, iron ore stockpile awaiting shipment,
doré awaiting refinement and unsold bullion. Product inventory costs consist of direct production costs including mining,
crushing and processing; site administration costs; and allocated indirect costs, including depreciation and amortization of property,
plant and equipment. 

Inventory costs are charged to production costs
on the basis of quantity of metal sold. At operations where the ore extracted contains significant amounts of metals other than
gold, primarily silver, copper, lead and zinc, cost is allocated between the joint products. The Company regularly evaluates and
refines estimates used in determining the costs charged to production costs and costs absorbed into inventory carrying values based
upon actual gold recoveries and operating plans.

Net realizable value is the estimated selling
price, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.

 

 
 (9)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

ii)Materials and supplies inventory consists of consumables used in operations, such as fuel, chemicals,
reagents and spare parts, which are valued at the lower of average cost and net realisable value and, where appropriate, less a
provision for obsolescence. Costs include acquisition, freight and other directly attributable costs.

3.10 Trade receivables

Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for bullion, doré, gold concentrate, other metal concentrates and iron
ore sold in the ordinary course of business.

Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method, less a provision for impairment where necessary.

3.11 Cash and cash
equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments
with maturities at the date of acquisition of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings
in current liabilities on the balance sheet.

3.12 Share capital

Common shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the
issue of common shares and share options are recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. Common shares held
by the Company are classified as treasury stock and recorded as a reduction of shareholders’ equity.

3.13 Trade payables

Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from
suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating
cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.

3.14 Debt and borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at
amortised cost, calculated using the effective interest method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs)
and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.

Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities and other borrowings are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the
extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility and other borrowings will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred
until the draw-down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility and borrowings
will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the loan to
which it relates.

3.15 Current and deferred
income tax

Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognized either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognized
in other comprehensive income or in equity, respectively.

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted
at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Taxes on income in the interim periods are
accrued using the tax rate that would be applicable to expected total annual earnings. The tax rate used is the rate that is substantively
enacted.

 
 (10)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated
financial statements. However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability
in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit
or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability
is settled.

A deferred tax asset is recognized
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related
tax benefit will be realized.

3.16 Employee benefits

(i) Defined benefit
plans

Certain employees have entitlements under Company
pension plans which are defined benefit pension plans. For defined benefit plans, the level of benefit provided is based on the
length of service and earnings of the person entitled.

The cost of the defined benefit plan is determined
using the projected unit credit method. The related pension liability recognized in the consolidated balance sheet is the present
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.

The Company obtains actuarial valuations for
defined benefit plans for each balance sheet date. Actuarial assumptions used in the determination of defined benefit pension plan
liabilities are based on best estimates, including rate of salary escalation and expected retirement dates of employees. The discount
rate is based on high quality bond yields, as per International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Future Benefits (“IAS 19”).
The assumption used to determine the interest income on plan assets is equal to the discount rate, as per IAS 19.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in
full in the period in which they occur in other comprehensive income without recycling to the statement of income in subsequent
periods. Current service cost, the vested element of any past service cost, the interest income on plan assets and the interest
arising on the pension liability are included in the same line items in the statement of income as the related compensation cost.

Past service costs are recognized immediately
to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits
become vested.

(ii) Defined contribution
plans

The Company’s contributions to defined
contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.

(iii) Termination benefits

Eldorado recognizes termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current
employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing benefits as a result of an offer
made to encourage voluntary termination. Benefits falling due more than twelve months after the end of the reporting period are
discounted to their present value.

(iv) Short-term benefits

Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if Eldorado has
a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation
can be estimated reliably.

 

 
 (11)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

3.17 Share-based payment
transactions

The Company applies the fair
value method of accounting for all stock option awards and equity settled restricted share units and performance share units. Under
this method the Company recognizes a compensation expense for all stock options awarded to employees, based on the fair value of
the options on the date of grant which is determined by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For equity settled restricted
share units, compensation expense is recognized based on the quoted market value of the shares. For equity settled performance
share units, compensation expense is recognized based on the fair value of the shares on the date of grant which is determined
by a valuator.

The fair value of the options,
restricted share units and performance share units are expensed over the vesting period of the awards with a corresponding increase
in equity. No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest. Deferred share units are liability awards recorded
at the quoted market price at the grant date. The corresponding liability is marked to market at each reporting date.

 3.18 
Provisions

A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation that
can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. They
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.

(i) Rehabilitation
and restoration

Provision is made for mine rehabilitation and restoration when an obligation is incurred. The provision is recognised as a
liability with a corresponding asset recognised in relation to the mine site. At each reporting date the rehabilitation liability
is re-measured in line with changes in discount rates, and timing or amount of the costs to be incurred. The rehabilitation liability
is classified as an ‘Asset retirement obligation’ on the balance sheet.

The provision recognised represents management’s best estimate of the present value of the future costs required. Significant
estimates and assumptions are made in determining the amount of restoration and rehabilitation provisions. Those estimates and
assumptions deal with uncertainties such as: requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory frameworks, the magnitude of necessary
remediation activities and the timing, extent and costs of required restoration and rehabilitation activity.

These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided. The provision recognised
is periodically reviewed and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the time. Changes to the estimated future
costs for operating sites are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the restoration and rehabilitation asset and provision.
Such changes give rise to a change in future depreciation and financial charges.

3.19 Revenue recognition

Revenue from the sale of bullion, doré,
gold concentrate, other metal concentrates and iron ore is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
the bullion, doré, metal concentrates and iron ore has been shipped, title has passed
to the purchaser, the price is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Revenues realized from sales of pre-commercial
production are recorded as a reduction of property plant and equipment.

Our metal concentrates are sold under pricing
arrangements where final metal prices are determined by market prices subsequent to the date of shipment. Provisional revenue
is recorded at date of shipment based on metal prices at that time. Adjustments are made to the provisional revenue in subsequent
periods based on fluctuations in the market prices until date of final metal pricing. Consequently, at each reporting period the
receivable balances relating to sales of concentrates changes with the fluctuations in market prices.

 
 (12)
 

 

3.Significant accounting policies (continued)

3.20 Finance income
and expenses

Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested (including available-for-sale financial assets), gains on the disposal
of available-for-sale financial assets and changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest income is recognized as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective interest method.

Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair value
of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and impairment losses recognized on financial assets. All borrowing costs
are recognized in profit or loss using the effective interest method, except for those amounts capitalized as part of the cost
of qualifying property, plant and equipment.

3.21 Earnings (loss)
per share

Eldorado presents basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) data for its
common shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to common shareholders of the Company by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss
attributable to common shareholders and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive
potential common shares, which comprise warrants and share options granted to employees.

 

4.Critical accounting estimates and judgements

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application
of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these
estimates.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each period end. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the
period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.

Significant areas requiring the use of management estimates include assumptions and estimates relating to determining defined
proven and probable reserves, value beyond proven and probable reserves, fair values for purposes of purchase price allocations
for business acquisitions, asset impairment analyses, asset retirement obligations, share-based payments and warrants, pension
benefits, valuation of deferred income tax assets, the provision for income tax liabilities, deferred income taxes and assessing
and evaluating contingencies.

Actual results could differ from these estimates. Outlined below are some of the areas which require management to make significant
estimates and assumptions in determining carrying values.

Purchase price allocation

Business combinations require estimates to be made at the date of acquisition in relation to determining asset and liability
fair values and the allocation of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities.

In respect of mining company acquisitions purchase consideration is typically allocated to the mineral reserves and resources
being acquired. The estimate of reserves and resources is subject to assumptions relating to life of the mine and may change when
new information becomes available. Changes in reserves and resources as a result of factors such as production costs, recovery
rates, grade or reserves or commodity prices could impact depreciation rates, asset carrying values and environmental and restoration
provisions. Changes in assumptions over long-term commodity prices, market demand and supply, and economic and regulatory climates
could also impact the carrying value of assets, including goodwill.

 

 
 (13)
 

 

4.Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued)

Estimated recoverable reserves and resources

Mineral reserve and resource estimates are based on various assumptions relating to operating matters, including, with respect
to production costs, mining and processing recoveries, cut-off grades, as well as assumptions relating to long-term commodity prices
and, in some cases, exchange rates, inflation rates and capital costs. Cost estimates are based on feasibility study estimates
or operating history. Estimates are prepared by appropriately qualified persons, but will be impacted by forecasted commodity prices,
inflation rates, exchange rates, capital and production costs and recoveries amongst other factors. Estimated recoverable reserves
and resources are used to determine the depreciation of property, plant and equipment at operating mine sites, in accounting for
deferred stripping costs, in performing impairment testing and for forecasting the timing of the payment of decommissioning and
restoration costs. Therefore, changes in the assumptions used could impact the carrying value of assets, depreciation and impairment
charges recorded in the income statement and the carrying value of the decommissioning and restoration provision.

Current and deferred taxes

The Company calculates current and deferred tax provisions for each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. Actual amounts
of income tax expense are not final until tax returns are filed and accepted by the relevant authorities. This occurs subsequent
to the issuance of financial statements. Therefore, profit in subsequent periods will be affected by the amount that estimates
differ from the final tax returns.

Estimates of recoverability
are required in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognized on the balance sheet.
The Company also evaluates the recoverability of deferred tax assets based on an assessment of the ability to use the underlying
future tax deductions before they expire against future taxable income. Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences
on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are recognized unless the reversal of the temporary differences is
not expected to occur in the foreseeable future and can be controlled.

Assumptions about the generation
of future taxable profits and repatriation of retained earnings depend on management’s estimates of future production and
sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, decommissioning and restoration costs, capital expenditures, dividends
and other capital management transactions.

Judgement is also required in
the application of income tax legislation. These estimates and judgments are subject to risk and uncertainty and could result in
an adjustment to current and deferred tax provisions and a corresponding credit or debit to profit.

Impairment of non-current assets and goodwill

Non-current assets are tested for impairment when
events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. We conduct an annual test for
impairment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and at any other time of the year if an indicator of impairment
is identified.

Calculating the estimated fair values of CGUs
for non-current asset impairment tests and CGUs or groups of CGUs for goodwill impairment tests requires management to make estimates
and assumptions with respect to future production levels, operating and capital costs in our life-of-mine (“LOM”) plans,
long-term metal prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates. Changes in any of the assumptions or estimates used in determining
the fair values could impact the impairment analysis.

Management is also required to make judgments with
respect to the level at which goodwill is tested for impairment. Judgments include an assessment of whether CGUs should be grouped
together for goodwill testing purposes at a level not larger than an operating segment or tested at the individual CGU level.

 

 
 (14)
 

 

5.Acquisitions and divestitures

a)Acquisition of Integra

On May 15, 2017, the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with Integra, pursuant to which Eldorado
agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Integra that it did not already own, by way of a plan of arrangement
(the “Arrangement”). The acquisition was finalized on July 10, 2017.

Under the terms of the Arrangement former Integra shareholders were entitled to receive, at their option, for each Integra
share they own either (i) 0.2425 Eldorado shares plus C$0.0001 in cash, (ii) C$1.2125 in cash, in both (i) and (ii) subject to
pro ration, or (iii) 0.18188 of an Eldorado share and C$0.30313 in cash. Eldorado issued 77,180,898 common shares pursuant to the
Arrangement with a fair value of $188,061 and paid $99,823 in cash to the former Integra shareholders. Integra is a resource company
engaged in the exploration of mineral properties. It is focused on its high-grade Lamaque gold project located in Val-d’Or,
Quebec.

As part of the consideration,
the Company included advances to Integra for $27,046 and the fair value of the existing available-for-sale Integra investment that
it previously owned for $41,968. The Company recognized a gain on marketable securities for $28,363 and taxes of $4,023, as a reversal
of the unrealized gain and taxes included in other comprehensive income at the date of acquisition related to this previously owned
investment.

The fair value of the common
shares issued as part of the consideration paid for Integra was based on the closing share price on July 7, 2017 on the Toronto
Stock Exchange. The foreign exchange rate used at time of acquisition was CDN$1 = US$0.776.

The goodwill of $92,591 resulting from the acquisition arises mainly on the recognition of deferred income tax liabilities
and represents, among other things, the exploration potential within the assets acquired and future variability in the price of
minerals. None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.

Eldorado paid net cash of $121,664
as a result of the Integra transaction. This net decrease of cash was a result of cash consideration, including advances to Integra,
of $126,869 net of an acquired cash balance of $5,205.

During the year ended December 31, 2016, Integra issued flow-through shares (“FTS”) for total proceeds of C$46.7
million and the eligible flow-through expenditures were renounced to shareholders as at December 31, 2016. At the time of acquisition,
Integra was obligated to spend the remaining flow through funds of C$16.6 million by December 31, 2017.
The tax authorities are reviewing the eligibility of some of Integra’s past flow-through expenditures. As a result,
a provision of $1.9 million has been recorded in accounts payable and accrued liabilities as the exposure related to potential
penalties and shareholder compensation, based on challenged expenditures to date. Integra’s FTS have been measured using
the residual method. Under this method, the proceeds from issuance have been allocated between the offering of shares and the sale
of tax benefits based on the difference between the quoted price of non-flow through shares and the amount the investor pays for
the flow through shares. A liability was recognized for this difference as the entity has an obligation to pass the tax deductions
to the investor. As Integra fulfills its obligation, the sale of tax deductions has been recognized in the income statement as
other income and the liability derecognized. Integra’s flow-through share premium liability as at December 31, 2017 amounts
to $nil, as compared to $4.7 million at the acquisition date.

 
 (15)
 

 

5. Acquisitions and divestitures
(continued)

A preliminary allocation of the purchase price, which is subject to final adjustments, is as follows:

 77,180,898 common shares of shares of Eldorado at C$3.14/share
 $ 188,061 

 Cash consideration including advances
 126,869 

 Fair value of existing available-for-sale investment in Integra by Eldorado
 41,968 

 Total Consideration
 
 $ 356,898 

 
 
 
 

 Net assets acquired:
 
 

 
 
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
 $ 5,205 

 Marketable securities
 
 2,857 

 Accounts receivable and other
 5,920 

 Inventories
 
 
 2,471 

 Other assets
 
 
 3,495 

 Property, plant and equipment
 393,647 

 Goodwill
 
 
 92,591 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 (8,028)

 Flow-through share premium liability
 (4,722)

 Other liabilities
 
 (9,635)

 Deferred income taxes
 
 (126,903)

 
 
 
 $ 356,898 

For the purpose of these consolidated financial
statements, the purchase consideration has been allocated on a preliminary basis to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on management’s best estimates taking into account all available information at the time of acquisition as
well as applicable information at the time these consolidated financial statements were prepared. The Company is in the process
of preparing a more detailed assessment of Integra’s asset retirement obligation and will continue to review information
and perform further analysis with respect to these assets, prior to finalizing the allocation of the purchase price.

Acquisition related costs of
$4,270 have been charged to acquisition costs in the consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2017.

These consolidated financial statements
include Integra’s results from July 10, 2017 to December 31, 2017. The net loss before tax included in the consolidated income
statement since July 10, 2017 contributed by Integra is $5,997. Had Integra been consolidated from January 1, 2017, the consolidated
income statement would include a net loss before tax of $18,173 from Integra.

 

b)Sale of China Business

On April 26, 2016, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement to sell its 82 percent interest in Jinfeng to a wholly-owned
subsidiary of China National Gold Group for $300 million in cash, subject to certain closing adjustments. The sale was completed
on September 6, 2016. In addition to the sale of Jinfeng, on May 16, 2016 Eldorado announced it had reached an agreement to sell
its respective interest in White Mountain, Tanjianshan and Eastern Dragon to an affiliate of Yintai Resources Co. Ltd. (“Yintai”)
for $600 million in cash, subject to certain closing adjustments. The sale was completed on November 22, 2016.

The Company concluded that during the second quarter of 2016, the assets and liabilities of the China Business met the criteria
for classification as held for sale as settlement was expected within twelve months. Accordingly, an initial post-tax loss of $339
million was recognized in the second quarter of 2016 on re-measurement to fair value less costs of disposal of our China Business.
For the year ended December 31, 2016, a net loss on sale of assets held for sale of $351.0 million was recorded in net loss from
discontinued operations as a result of completing both sale transactions.

 
 (16)
 

 

5. Acquisitions and divestitures
(continued)

During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company
recorded an expense of $2.8 million for working capital adjustments related to the Yintai sale based on the agreement that was
reached with Yintai during the year. This amount was paid to Yintai in the month of June of this year and is included as discontinued
operations in the consolidated income statement.

The China Business net earnings to date of disposition were included in the Company's consolidated results for the year ended
December 31, 2016. These results have been presented as discontinued operations within the consolidated income statements and the
consolidated statements of cash flows. The profit (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 is as
follows:

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 For the year ended December 31
 
 2016

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 $ 

 Revenue
 
 217,511 

 Production costs
 
 144,590 

 Depreciation and amortization
 
 19,067 

 Gross profit
 
 53,854 

 Exploration expenses
 
 1,257 

 General and administrative expenses
 
 20,999 

 Foreign exchange loss
 
 306 

 Operating profit
 
 31,292 

 Interest and financing costs
 
 169 

 Asset retirement obligation accretion
 
 356 

 Other expense
 
 2,713 

 Profit from discontinued operations before income tax
 
 28,054 

 Income tax expense
 
 16,189 

 Profit (loss) from discontinued operations
 
 11,865 

 Loss on sale of assets held for sale
 
 351,234 

 Net loss from discontinued operations
 
 (339,369)

 
 (17)
 

 

6.Cash and cash equivalents

 
 
 December 31, 2017
 $
 December
 31, 2016
 $

 Cash
 at bank and on hand
 293,437
 282,021

 Short-term
 bank deposits
 186,064
 601,150

 
 479,501
 883,171

 

7.Accounts
 receivable and other

 
 December
 31, 2017
 $
 December
 31, 2016
 $

 Trade
 receivables
 7,746
 11,053

 Value
 added and other taxes recoverable
 44,717
 22,156

 Other
 receivables and advances
 7,134
 8,208

 Prepaid
 expenses and deposits
 18,747
 12,898

 
 78,344
 54,315

 

8.Inventories

 
 December
 31, 2017
 $
 December
 31, 2016
 $

 
 
 

 Ore
 stockpiles
 3,297
 2,715

 In-process
 inventory and finished goods
 96,651
 50,195

 Materials
 and supplies
 68,896
 67,920

 
 168,844
 120,830

The cost of materials and supplies consumed during
the year and included in production costs amounted to $120,422 (2016 – $103,073).

Inventory write downs related to zinc inventory
amounting to $444 (2016 – $nil) were recognized during the year.

 

9.Investment in subsidiaries

The following table summarizes
the information relating to each of the Company’s subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests (“NCI”).
The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are based on those included in the consolidated financial statements before inter-company
eliminations.

 

 
 (18)
 

 

9.Investment in subsidiaries (continued)

 December 31, 2017
 Hellas
 Deva

 
 $
 $

 NCI percentage
 5%
 19.5%

 
 
 

 Current assets
 72,454 
 4,958 

 Non-current assets
 2,143,089 
 413,989 

 Current liabilities
 (1,113,471)
 (234,386)

 Non-current liabilities
 (291,447)
 (43,623)

 Net assets
 810,625 
 140,938 

 Carrying amount of NCI
 31,732 
 46,919 

 Revenue
 51,152 
 - 

 Net loss
 (62,365)
 (42,632)

 Total comprehensive loss
 (62,365)
 (42,632)

 Loss allocated to NCI
 (3,118)
 (8,314)

 Dividends paid to NCI
 - 
 - 

 Cash flows from operating activities
 (9,253)
 (51,328)

 Cash flows from investing activities
 (181,116)
 (2,007)

 Cash flows from financing activities
 172,431 
 53,007 

 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
 (17,938)
 (328)

 December 31, 2016
 Hellas
 Deva

 
 $
 $

 NCI percentage
 5%
 19.5%

 
 
 

 Current assets
 80,251 
 4,613 

 Non-current assets
 1,978,622 
 412,082 

 Current liabilities
 (950,131)
 (189,548)

 Non-current liabilities
 (298,488)
 (43,577)

 Net assets
 810,254 
 183,570 

 Carrying amount of NCI
 33,553 
 55,233 

 Revenue
 40,631 
 - 

 Net loss
 (67,712)
 (5,553)

 Total comprehensive loss
 (67,712)
 (5,553)

 Loss allocated to NCI
 (3,386)
 (1,289)

 Dividends paid to NCI
 - 
 - 

 Cash flows from operating activities
 (52,588)
 (6,037)

 Cash flows from investing activities
 (208,031)
 (15,952)

 Cash flows from financing activities
 288,982 
 22,799 

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 28,363 
 810 

Profit/loss allocated
to NCI in the consolidated income statement includes $21 related to non-material subsidiaries (2016 – $1,950, including
NCI in discontinued operations).

 
 (19)
 

 

10.Other assets

 

 
 
 December 31, 2017
 $
 
 December 31, 2016
 $

 
 
 

 Restricted
 credit card deposits
 43
 38

 Prepaid
 loan costs (note 14(a))
 1,272
 1,772

 Restricted
 cash
 9,743
 -

 Environmental
 guarantee deposits
 2,831
 -

 Prepaid
 forestry fees
 3,628
 -

 Long-term
 value added and other taxes recoverable
 5,385
 46,487

 
 22,902
 48,297

 

Restricted cash is held on account with HSBC Canada
to support a Letter of Guarantee issued in Canada and counter-guaranteed by HSBC Athens (note 15b). The Letter of Guarantee was
issued pursuant to the request from the Ministry of Environment and Energy in Greece to support the operation and restoration of
the Kokkinolakkas Tailings Management Facility. The funds are invested at prevailing bank rates and interest is accrued monthly.
Interest is paid directly to the account with the total balance being recorded as restricted cash. The account allows for any excess,
above the notional principal of the Letter of Guarantee, to be remitted back to the Company.

 
 (20)
 

 

11.Property, plant and equipment

 

 
 Land and buildings
 Plant and equipment
 Capital works in progress
 Mineral properties and leases
 Capitalized Evaluation
 Total

 
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $

 Cost
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2016
 406,891 
 1,732,066 
 164,392 
 4,776,549 
 71,020 
 7,150,918 

 Additions/transfers
 24,121 
 62,050 
 2,577 
 235,756 
 6,475 
 330,979 

 Sale of China Business
 (266,878)
 (376,571)
 (24,712)
 (1,132,900)
 - 
 (1,801,061)

 Proceeds on production of tailings retreatment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,708)
 - 
 (3,708)

 Other movements
 1,084 
 2,088 
 (335)
 6,457 
 - 
 9,294 

 Disposals
 (678)
 (2,685)
 - 
 (4,681)
 - 
 (8,044)

 Balance at December 31, 2016
 164,540 
 1,416,948 
 141,922 
 3,877,473 
 77,495 
 5,678,378 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2017
 164,540 
 1,416,948 
 141,922 
 3,877,473 
 77,495 
 5,678,378 

 Additions/transfers
 12,322 
 115,684 
 (42,933)
 254,481 
 9,536 
 349,090 

 Aquiistion of Integra
 4,820 
 3,646 
 - 
 385,181 
 - 
 393,647 

 Proceeds on pre-commercial production and tailings retreatment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (38,200)
 - 
 (38,200)

 Other movements
 4,251 
 (2,325)
 (12,336)
 7,832 
 - 
 (2,578)

 Disposals
 (10)
 (2,313)
 (29,832)
 (1,168)
 - 
 (33,323)

 Balance at December 31, 2017
 185,923 
 1,531,640 
 56,821 
 4,485,599 
 87,031 
 6,347,014 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Depreciation and impairment losses
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2016
 (131,905)
 (820,973)
 (4,733)
 (1,445,548)
 - 
 (2,403,159)

 Depreciation for the year
 (12,000)
 (78,847)
 - 
 (8,820)
 - 
 (99,667)

 Other movements
 (274)
 (1,198)
 - 
 (1,897)
 - 
 (3,369)

 Sale of China Business
 105,536 
 193,106 
 - 
 173,010 
 - 
 471,652 

 Disposals
 8 
 1,271 
 - 
 713 
 - 
 1,992 

 Balance at December 31, 2016
 (38,635)
 (706,641)
 (4,733)
 (1,282,542)
 - 
 (2,032,551)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2017
 (38,635)
 (706,641)
 (4,733)
 (1,282,542)
 - 
 (2,032,551)

 Depreciation for the year
 (4,245)
 (79,044)
 - 
 (2,948)
 - 
 (86,237)

 Other movements
 (546)
 (2,048)
 - 
 80 
 - 
 (2,514)

 Disposals
 - 
 1,683 
 - 
 2 
 - 
 1,685 

 Balance at December 31, 2017
 (43,426)
 (786,050)
 (4,733)
 (1,285,408)
 - 
 (2,119,617)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Carrying amounts
 
 
 
 
 
 

 At January 1, 2016
 274,986 
 911,093 
 159,659 
 3,331,001 
 71,020 
 4,747,759 

 At December 31, 2016
 125,905 
 710,307 
 137,189 
 2,594,931 
 77,495 
 3,645,827 

 Balance at December 31, 2017
 142,497 
 745,590 
 52,088 
 3,200,191 
 87,031 
 4,227,397 

 

The amount of capitalized interest
during the year ended December 31, 2017 included in property, plant and equipment was $36,750 ($2016 – $31,680).

On December 31, 2017, the Company’s
Olympias mine achieved commercial production. As a result, revenues from commercial production from Olympias mine will be reflected
on our consolidated income statement.

 
 (21)
 

 

 

11.Property, plant and equipment (continued)

Write-down of assets of $46.7
million includes $29.8 million of equipment that was sold or written down to its estimated recoverable amounts during the year
ended December 31, 2017 as part of a review of the estimated useful lives and recoverable amounts of certain surplus equipment
and is presented in disposal in the table above. Write-down of assets also includes $16.7 million of costs incurred during the
year on assets that have been previously impaired.

In accordance with the Company’s
accounting policies each CGU is assessed for indicators of impairment, from both external and internal sources, at the end of each
reporting period, which may suggest that the carrying values of its assets are impaired for accounting purposes. If such
indicators of impairment exist for any or all CGUs, those CGUs are tested for impairment. 

The Company considered that the carrying amount
of its net assets being higher than market capitalization of the Company at December 31, 2017 was an indicator of impairment. The
Company determined that the indicator related to the Kisladag and Olympias mines and the Skouries development project. In accordance
with the Company’s accounting policy, the Company completed analyses of the recoverable amounts of these cash generating
units (“CGU’s”) versus their respective carrying values. Management determined that the recoverable amount exceeded
the carrying value for each CGU where impairment test were performed and accordingly no impairments were required. Determining
the estimated fair values of each CGU required management to make estimates and assumptions with respect to discount rates, future
production levels including recovery rates and concentrate grades, operating and capital costs, long term metal prices and income
taxes. Changes in any of the assumptions or estimates used in determining the fair values could impact the impairment analysis.

The key assumptions used for assessing the recoverable
amount of the Company’s CGUs versus their carrying values are as follows:

 

 Gold
 price ($/oz)
 $1,300

 Silver
 price ($/oz)
 $18

 Lead
 price ($/lb)
 $1.09

 Zinc
 price ($/lb)
 $1.27

 Copper
 price ($/lb)
 $2.80

 Discount
 rate
 5
 - 8%

 

 

12.Goodwill

 

 
 2017
 2016

 
 $
 $

 Cost
 
 

 Balance at January 1,
 - 
 50,276 

 Acquired during the year
 92,591 
 - 

 Disposal due to sale
 - 
 (50,276)

 Balance at December 31,
 92,591 
 - 

 

As a result of the preliminary purchase price
allocation for the Integra acquisition, the Company recognized goodwill of $92,591 during the year (note 5a). The Company will
continue to review information and perform further analysis with respect to these assets, prior to finalizing the allocation of
the purchase price.

There has been no goodwill impairment recorded
for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.

 

 

 
 (22)
 

 

 

12. Goodwill (continued)

Impairment tests for goodwill

Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and
when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing
the recoverable amount of each CGU or group of CGUs to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less
than its carrying amount including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be
reversed in future periods. As of December 31, 2017 all goodwill relates to Integra.

The key assumptions used for assessing the recoverable
amount of goodwill in Integra are as follows:

 

 
 Gold
 price ($/oz)
 
 $1,300

 
 Silver
 price ($/oz)
 Discount
 rate
 
 $16
 - $18
 7%

 

The values assigned to the key assumptions represented
management’s assessment of future trends in the gold mining industry and in the global economic environment. The assumptions
used were management’s best estimates and were based on both current and historical information from external and internal
sources.

 

13.Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

 
 
 December 31, 2017
 $
 December
 31, 2016
 $

 Trade
 payables
 60,081
 43,712

 Taxes
 payable
 213
 243

 Accrued
 expenses
 50,357
 46,750

 
 110,651
 90,705

 

14.Debt

(a) Revolving credit facility

In November 2012, the Company
entered into a $375.0 million credit facility with a syndicate of banks. This credit facility was amended and restated in June
2016 (“the amended and restated credit agreement” or “ARCA”) and reduced to an available credit of $250
million with the option to increase by an additional $100 million through an accordion feature. The maturity date is June 13, 2020.
The ARCA is secured by the shares of SG Resources and Tuprag, wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company.

The ARCA contains covenants
that restrict, among other things, the ability of the Company to incur aggregate unsecured indebtedness exceeding $850 million,
incur secured indebtedness exceeding $200 million and permitted unsecured indebtedness exceeding $150 million. The ARCA also contains
restrictions for making distributions in certain circumstances, selling material assets and conducting business other than that
which relates to the mining industry. Significant financial covenants include a maximum Net Debt to Earnings before Interest, Taxes,
Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) of 3.5:1 and a minimum EBITDA to Interest of 3:1. The Company is in compliance
with these covenants at December 31, 2017.

Loan interest is variable
dependent on a Net Leverage ratio pricing grid. The Company’s current net leverage ratio is approximately 0.9:1. At this
ratio, interest charges and fees are as follows: LIBOR plus margin of 2.0% and undrawn standby fee of 0.50%. Fees of $2,031 were
paid on the amendment dated June 2016. This amount has been deferred as pre-payment for liquidity services and is being amortized
to financing costs over the term of the credit facility. As
at December 31, 2017, the prepaid loan cost on the balance sheet was $1,272 (2016 - $1,772).

No amounts were drawn down under the ARCA as at
December 31, 2017 (2016 – nil).

 
 (23)
 

 

14. Debt (continued)

(b) Senior notes

On December 10, 2012, the Company completed an
offering of $600.0 million senior notes (“the notes”) at par value, with a coupon rate of 6.125% due December 15, 2020.
The notes pay interest semi-annually on June 15 and December 15. The Company received proceeds of $589.5 million from the offering,
which is net of the commission payment. The notes are redeemable by the Company in whole or in part, for cash:

i)At any time prior to December 15, 2016 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal
amount of the notes at the treasury yield plus 50 basis points, and any accrued and unpaid interest;

ii)On and after the dates provided below, at the redemption prices, expressed as a percentage of
principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the notes:

December 15, 2017 101.531%
2018 and thereafter 100.000%

The early prepayment prices are to reimburse the
lender for lost interest for the remaining term. The fair market value of the notes as at December 31, 2017 is $596 million.

Net deferred financing costs of $6,217 (2016 -
$8,411) have been included as an offset in the balance of the notes in the financial statements and are being amortized over the
term of the notes.

 

15.Asset retirement obligations

 
 Greece
 Brazil
 Turkey
 Romania
 Canada
 Total

 
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $

 At January 1, 2017
 48,131 
 4,092 
 36,196 
 1,359 
 - 
 89,778 

 Acquired during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,453 
 9,453 

 Accretion during the year
 1,025 
 32 
 913 
 36 
 - 
 2,006 

 Revisions to estimate of obligation
 1,112 
 (80)
 502 
 10 
 - 
 1,544 

 Settlements
 (2,807)
 - 
 (290)
 - 
 - 
 (3,097)

 At December 31, 2017
 47,461 
 4,044 
 37,321 
 1,405 
 9,453 
 99,684 

 Less: Current portion
 (3,489)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,489)

 Long term portion
 43,972 
 4,044 
 37,321 
 1,405 
 9,453 
 96,195 

 Estimated undiscounted amount
 71,591 
 4,117 
 49,257 
 2,340 
 12,286 
 139,591 

 

The
Company’s asset retirement obligations relate to the restoration and rehabilitation of the Company’s mining operations
and projects under development. The expected timing of the cash flows in respect of the provision is based on the estimated life
of the various mining operations. The increase in the estimate of the obligation in 2017 was mainly due to the acquisition of Integra.

The
provision is calculated as the present value of estimated future net cash outflows based on the following key assumptions:

 

 
 (24)
 

 

15. Asset retirement obligations
(continued)

 
 Greece
 Brazil
 Turkey
 Romania
 Canada

 
 %
 %
 %
 %
 %

 At December 31, 2016
 
 
 
 
 

 Inflation rate
 2.0 to 2.4 
 2.0 to 2.4 
 2.0 to 2.4 
 2.0 to 2.4 
 - 

 Discount rate
 1.5 to 3.0 
 0.8 
 2.3 to 2.5 
 2.7 
 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 At December 31, 2017
 
 
 
 
 

 Inflation rate
 2.0 to 2.2 
 2.0 to 2.2 
 2.0 to 2.2 
 2.0 to 2.2 
 2.0 to 2.2 

 Discount rate
 1.5 to 3.0 
 1.8 
 2.3 to 2.5 
 2.7 
 2.3 to 2.5 

The
discount rate is a risk-free rate determined based on U.S. Treasury bond rates. U.S. Treasury bond rates have been used for all
of the mine sites as the liabilities are denominated in U.S. dollars and the majority of the expenditures are expected to be incurred
in U.S. dollars. Similarly, the inflation rates used in determining the present value of the future net cash outflows are based
on U.S inflation rates.

Environmental
guarantee deposits exist with respect to the environmental rehabilitation of the Lamaque project (note 10).

Additionally,
the Company has the following:

a)
a €50.0 million Letter of Guarantee to the Greek Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate Change as security for the due
and proper performance of rehabilitation works committed in relation to the mining and metallurgical facilities of the Kassandra
Mines (Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries) and the removal, cleaning and rehabilitation of the old Olympias tailings. This Letter
of Guarantee is renewed annually, expires on July 26, 2026 and has an annual fee of 57 basis points.

b)
a €7.5 million Letter of Guarantee to the Greek Ministry of Environment and Energy for the due and proper performance of
the Kokinolakas Tailings Management Facility, committed in connection with the Environmental Impact Assessment approved for the
Kassandra Mines (Stratoni, Olympias and Skouries). The Letter of Guarantee is renewed annually and expires on July 26, 2026. The
Letter of Guarantee has an annual fee of 45 basis points.

16.Defined benefit plans

 
 
 December 31, 2017 
 December 31, 2016 

 
 
 $ 
 $ 

 Balance sheet obligations (asset) for: 
 
 
 

 Pension Plan 
 
 13,599 
 10,882 

 Supplemental Pension Plan 
 
 (9,919)
 (11,620)

 
 (25)
 

 

16. Defined benefit plans
(continued)

 
 
 December 31, 2017 
 December 31, 2016 

 
 
 $ 
 $ 

 Income statement charge for: 
 
 
 

 Pension plan 
 
 2,841 
 4,409 

 Supplemental Pension Plan 
 
 610 
 1,193 

 
 
 3,451 
 5,602 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 Actuarial losses (gains) recognised in the statement of other 
 
 
 

 comprehensive income in the period (before tax) 
 
 3,121 
 1,188 

 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the statement of other 
 
 
 

 comprehensive income (before tax) 
 
 18,641 
 15,520

The Company operates defined benefit pension plans
in Canada with two components: a registered pension plan (“the Pension Plan”) and a supplemental pension plan (“the
SERP”). During the second quarter of 2012, the SERP was converted into a Retirement Compensation Arrangement (“RCA”),
a trust account. As it is a trust account, the assets in the account are protected from the Company’s creditors. The
RCA requires the Company to remit 50% of any contributions and any realized investment gains to the Receiver General of Canada
as refundable tax.

These plans, which
are only available to certain qualifying employees, provide benefits based on an employee’s years of service and final average
earnings at retirement. Annual contributions related to these plans are actuarially determined and made at or in excess of minimum
requirements prescribed by legislation.

Eldorado’s
plans have actuarial valuations performed for funding purposes. The last actuarial valuations for funding purposes performed for
the Pension Plan and the SERP are as of January 1, 2017 and the next valuation will be prepared in accordance with the funding
policy as of January 1, 2018. The measurement date to determine the pension obligation and assets for accounting purposes was December
31, 2017.

The SERP is designed to provide supplementary
pension benefits to qualifying employees affected by the maximum pension limits under the Income Tax Act pursuant to the
registered Pension Plan. Further, the Company is not required to pre-fund any benefit obligation under the SERP.

Total cash payments

The amount contributed to the Pension Plan and
the SERP was $1,415 (2016 – $1,728). Cash payments totalling $1,542 were made directly to beneficiaries during the year (2016
– $471). The expected contributions to the Pension Plan is $67 and $510 to the SERP in 2018.

Subsidiaries pension plan

According to the Greek and Turkish labour laws,
employees are entitled to compensation in case of dismissal or retirement, the amount of which varies depending on salary, years
of service and the manner of termination (dismissal or retirement). Employees who resign or are dismissed with cause are not entitled
to compensation. The Company considers this a defined benefit obligation. Amounts relating to these pension plans have been included
in the tables in this note under “Pension Plan” when applicable.

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet for
all pension plans are determined as follows:

 
 (26)
 

 

16. Defined benefit plans
(continued)

 
 December 31, 2017
 
 December 31, 2016
 

 
 Pension Plan
 SERP
 Total
 Pension Plan
 SERP
 Total

 
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $

 Present value of obligations
 16,028 
 43,956 
 59,984 
 12,936 
 37,686 
 50,622 

 Fair value of plan assets
 (2,429)
 (53,875)
 (56,304)
 (2,054)
 (49,306)
 (51,360)

 Liability (asset) on balance sheet
 13,599 
 (9,919)
 3,680 
 10,882 
 (11,620)
 (738)

The movement in the defined benefit obligation
over the year is as follows:

 
 2017
 2016

 
 Pension Plan
 SERP
 Total
 Pension Plan
 SERP
 Total

 
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $

 Balance at January 1,
 12,936 
 37,686 
 50,622 
 8,688 
 31,565 
 40,253 

 Current service cost
 2,102 
 877 
 2,979 
 520 
 1,483 
 2,003 

 Past service cost
 206 
 208 
 414 
 3,494 
 193 
 3,687 

 Interest cost
 620 
 1,508 
 2,128 
 476 
 1,340 
 1,816 

 Actuarial loss (gain)
 292 
 2,390 
 2,682 
 445 
 1,939 
 2,384 

 Benefit payments
 (1,060)
 (1,485)
 (2,545)
 (26)
 (445)
 (471)

 Exchange (gain) loss
 932 
 2,772 
 3,704 
 (661)
 1,611 
 950 

 Balance at December 31,
 16,028 
 43,956 
 59,984 
 12,936 
 37,686 
 50,622 

The movement in the fair value of plan assets
of the year is as follows:

 
 2017
 2016

 
 Pension Plan
 SERP 
 Total
 Pension Plan
 SERP 
 Total

 
 $ 
 $ 
 $
 $ 
 $ 
 $

 At January 1,
 2,054 
 49,306 
 51,360 
 1,968 
 43,016 
 44,984 

 Interest income on plan assets
 86 
 1,983 
 2,069 
 81 
 1,823 
 1,904 

 Actuarial gain (loss)
 (55)
 (384)
 (439)
 (32)
 (1,164)
 (1,196)

 Contributions by employer
 219 
 1,196 
 1,415 
 - 
 1,728 
 1,728 

 Benefit payments
 (57)
 (1,485)
 (1,542)
 (26)
 (445)
 (471)

 Exchange gain
 182 
 3,259 
 3,441 
 63 
 4,348 
 4,411 

 At December 31,
 2,429 
 53,875 
 56,304 
 2,054 
 49,306 
 51,360 

 

The amounts recognised in the
income statement are as follows:

 
 2017
 2016

 
 Pension Plan
 SERP
 Total
 Pension Plan
 SERP
 Total

 
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Current service cost
 2,102 
 877 
 2,979 
 520 
 1,483 
 2,003 

 Interest cost
 620 
 1,508 
 2,128 
 476 
 1,340 
 1,816 

 Past Service Cost
 206 
 208 
 414 
 3,494 
 193 
 3,687 

 Expected return on plan assets
 (87)
 (1,983)
 (2,070)
 (81)
 (1,823)
 (1,904)

 Defined benefit plans expense
 2,841 
 610 
 3,451 
 4,409 
 1,193 
 5,602 

 

 
 (27)
 

16. Defined benefit plans (continued)

The actual return on plan assets was $1,416
(2016 – $3,801).

The principal actuarial assumptions used were
as follows:

 
 2017
 
 2016

 
 Pension Plan
 
 SERP
 
 Pension Plan
 
 SERP

 
 Greece
 Turkey
 Canada
 
 Canada
 
 Greece
 Turkey
 Canada
 
 

 
 %
 %
 %
 
 %
 
 %
 %
 %
 
 %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Expected return on plan assets
 - 
 - 
 3.9 
 
 3.9 
 
 - 
 - 
 3.9 
 
 3.9 

 Discount rate - beginning of year
 1.6 
 10.5 
 3.9 
 
 3.9 
 
 2.0 
 10.5 
 4.0 
 
 4.0 

 Discount rate - end of year
 1.7 
 11.0 
 3.4 
 
 3.4 
 
 1.6 
 10.5 
 3.9 
 
 3.9 

 Rate of salary escalation
 2.8 
 6.5 
 2.0 
 
 2.0 
 
 2.8 
 6.0 
 2.0 
 
 2.0 

 Average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits
 - 
 - 
 8.2 years 
 
 8.2 years 
 
 - 
 - 
 7.1 years 
 
 7.1 years 

 

 

 

The assumption used to determine the interest
income on plan assets is equal to the discount rate, as per IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’.

 

Plan Assets

The assets of the Pension Plan
and the amounts deposited in the SERP account are managed by a major investment management company and are invested only in conformity
with the investment requirements of applicable pension laws.

 

The following table summarizes
the defined benefit plans’ weighted average asset allocation percentages by asset category:

 
 
 December 31, 2017
 December 31, 2016

 
 
 Pension Plan
 SERP
 Pension Plan
 SERP

 Investment funds
 
 
 
 
 

 Money market
 
 0%
 6%
 2%
 3%

 Canadian fixed income
 100%
 2%
 98%
 4%

 Canadian equities
 
 - 
 20%
 - 
 21%

 US equities
 
 - 
 19%
 - 
 20%

 International equities
 
 
 - 
 7%
 - 
 8%

 Other (1)
 
 -

 46%
 - 
 44%

 Total
 
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%

 
 
 
 
 
 

 1 Assets held by the Canada Revenue Agency in the refundable tax account
 
 

 

The sensitivity of the overall pension obligation
to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:

 
 Change
 in assumption
 Impact
 on overall obligation

 Discount
 rate
 Increase
 by 0.5%
 Decrease
 by $2,855

 
 Decrease
 by 0.5%
 Increase
 by $3,157

 Salary
 escalation rate
 Increase
 by 0.5%
 Decrease
 by 0.5%
 Increase
 by $8
 decrease
 by $14

 
 (28)
 

17.Income tax expense and deferred taxes

Total income tax expense (recovery) consists
of:

 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2017
 December 31, 2016

 
 
 
 
 $
 $

 Current tax expense
 
 
 39,232 
 47,166 

 Deferred tax expense (recovery)
 
 (19,849)
 9,039 

 
 
 
 
 19,383 
 56,205 

 

Total income tax expense (recovery) attributable
to geographical jurisdiction is as follows:

 
 
 
 
 2017
 2016

 
 
 
 
 $
 $

 Turkey
 
 
 
 30,139 
 64,343 

 Greece
 
 
 
 (4,598)
 (1,355)

 Brazil
 
 
 
 (1,087)
 (4,385)

 Canada
 
 
 
 2,960 
 (1,428)

 Romania
 
 
 
 (8,026)
 (1,053)

 Other jurisdictions
 
 
 (5)
 83 

 
 
 
 
 19,383 
 56,205 

 

 
 (29)
 

 

Factors affecting income tax expense (recovery)
for the year:

 
 
 
 
 2017
 2016

 
 
 
 
 $
 $

 Profit from continuing operations before income tax
 792 
 48,698 

 Canadian statutory tax rate
 
 26%
 26%

 Tax expense on net income at Canadian statutory tax rate
 206 
 12,662 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Items that cause an increase (decrease) in income tax expense:
 
 

 Foreign income subject to different income tax rates than Canada
 (11,792)
 (15,695)

 Non-tax effected operating losses
 
 9,691 
 19,198 

 Non-deductible expenses and other items
 10,002 
 10,525 

 Foreign exchange and other translation adjustments
 6,289 
 16,048 

 Amounts under (over) provided in prior years
 (84)
 453 

 Investment tax credits
 
 
 (226)
 (269)

 Withholding tax on foreign income
 
 5,297 
 13,283 

 Income tax expense
 
 
 19,383 
 56,205 

17. Income tax expense and
deferred taxes (continued)

The change for the year in the Company's net
deferred tax position was as follows:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017
 2016

 Net deferred tax asset (liability)
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 $ 

 Balance at January 1,
 
 
 
 
 
 (443,501)
 (607,871)

 Deferred income tax (expense) recovery related to discontinued operations
 - 
 174,837 

 Deferred income tax liability related to Integra acquisition
 
 (126,903)
 - 

 Deferred income tax (expense) recovery in the income statement
 
 19,849 
 (9,039)

 Deferred tax recovery (expense) in other comprehensive income
 
 1,428 
 (1,428)

 Net balance at December 31,
 
 
 
 
 (549,127)
 (443,501)

 
 (30)
 

 

The composition of the Company’s
net deferred income tax asset and liability and deferred tax expense is as follows:

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expense (recovery)

 Type of temporary difference
 Deferred tax assets
 Deferred tax liabilities
 on the income statement

 
 
 
 2017
 2016
 2017
 2016
 2017
 2016

 
 
 
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $

 Property, plant and equipment
 - 
 - 
 592,062 
 482,530 
 (33,466)
 11,200 

 Loss carryforwards
 
 31,457 
 15,436 
 - 
 - 
 (4,641)
 (1,603)

 Liabilities
 
 
 24,690 
 20,864 
 - 
 - 
 (80)
 (3,496)

 Investment tax credits
 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,665 

 Other items
 
 1,997 
 13,995 
 15,208 
 11,266 
 18,338 
 (2,727)

 Balance at December 31,
 58,144 
 50,295 
 607,270 
 493,796 
 (19,849)
 9,039 

 

 Unrecognized deferred tax assets
 2017
 2016

 
 
 
 $
 $

 Tax losses
 
 
 167,030 
 164,100 

 Other deductible temporary differences
 11,253 
 9,968 

 Total unrecognized deferred tax assets
 178,283 
 174,068 

 

Unrecognized tax losses

 

At
December 31, 2017 the Company had losses with a tax benefit of $167,030 (2016 – $164,100) which are not recognized as deferred
tax assets. The Company recognizes the benefit of tax losses only to the extent of anticipated future taxable income that can
be reduced by the tax losses. The gross amount of the tax losses for which a tax benefit has not been recorded expire as follows:

 
 (31)
 

 

17. Income tax expense and
deferred taxes (continued)

 Expiry date
 Canada 
 Brazil 
 Greece 
 Total 

 
 
 $ 
 $ 
 $ 
 $ 

 
 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 

 2018
 
 - 
 - 
 10,880 
 10,880 

 2019
 
 - 
 - 
 28,934 
 28,934 

 2020
 
 - 
 - 
 26,420 
 26,420 

 2021
 
 - 
 - 
 16,058 
 16,058 

 2022
 
 
 
 10,638 
 10,638 

 2025
 
 7,858 
 - 
 - 
 7,858 

 2026
 
 14,839 
 - 
 - 
 14,839 

 2027
 
 10,703 
 - 
 - 
 10,703 

 2028
 
 25,959 
 - 
 - 
 25,959 

 2029
 
 23,444 
 - 
 - 
 23,444 

 2030
 
 7,285 
 - 
 - 
 7,285 

 2031
 
 45,351 
 - 
 - 
 45,351 

 2032
 
 74,871 
 - 
 - 
 74,871 

 2033
 
 64,883 
 - 
 - 
 64,883 

 2034
 
 58,689 
 - 
 - 
 58,689 

 2035
 
 55,266 
 - 
 - 
 55,266 

 2036
 
 50,503 
 - 
 - 
 50,503 

 2037
 
 43,180 
 
 
 43,180 

 No Expiry
 
 - 
 33,378 
 - 
 33,378 

 
 
 482,831 
 33,378 
 92,930 
 609,139 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Capital losses with no expiry
 65,812 
 - 
 - 
 65,812 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Tax effect of total losses not recognized
 134,289 
 5,791 
 26,950 
 167,030 

Deductible temporary differences

At December 31, 2017 the Company had deductible
temporary differences for which deferred tax assets of $11,253 (2016 – $9,968) have not been recognized because it is not
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Company can utilize the benefits. The vast majority of
these temporary benefits have no expiry date.

 

Temporary differences associated with investments
in subsidiaries

The Company has not recognized deferred tax liabilities
in respect of historical unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries for which we are able to control the timing of the remittance
and are considered reinvested for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2017, these earnings amount to $788,137 (2016 – $782,803). 
Substantially all of these earnings would be subject to withholding taxes if they were remitted by the foreign subsidiaries.

 

Other factors affecting taxation

During the year the Turkish Lira has weakened,
causing a deferred income tax expense during the year of $6,530 due to the decrease in the value of the future tax deductions associated
with the Turkish operations. The Company expects that in the future significant foreign exchange movements in the Turkish
Lira, Euro or Brazilian Real in relation to the U.S. dollar will cause significant volatility in the deferred income tax expense
or recovery.

 
 (32)
 

 

 

18.Share capital

Eldorado’s authorized
share capital consists of an unlimited number of voting common shares without par value and an unlimited number of non-voting common
shares without par value. At December 31, 2017 there were no non-voting common shares outstanding (December 31, 2016 – nil).

 Voting
 common shares
 Number
 of
 Shares
 Total
 $

 At
 January 1, 2016
 716,587,134
 5,319,101

 Capital
 Reduction 
 -
 (2,500,000)

 At
 December 31, 2016
 716,587,134
 2,819,101

 Shares
 issued upon exercise of share options, for cash
 242,648
 586

 Estimated
 fair value of share options exercised
 -
 176

 Shares
 issued for acquisition of Integra
 77,180,898
 188,061

 At
 December 31, 2017
 794,010,680
 3,007,924

 

19.Share-based payments

(a)
Share option plans

The Company has two share
option plans (the “Plans”) approved, as amended and restated, by the shareholders from time to time and most recently
on May 1, 2014 under which share purchase options (“Options”) can be granted to directors, officers, employees and
consultants.

The Company’s Incentive
Stock Option Plan - Employees, Consultants and Advisors (the “Employee Plan”) consists of options (the “Employee
Plan Options”) which are subject to a 5-year maximum term and payable in shares of the Company when vested and exercised.
The Employee Plan prohibits the re-pricing of Employee Options without shareholder approval. Employee Plan Options vest at the
discretion of the Board of Directors at the time an Employee Option is granted. Generally, Employee Plan Options granted before
November 1, 2015 vest in three equal and separate tranches with the first tranche vesting on the grant date and the second and
third tranches vesting on the second and third anniversary dates of the grant date. Employee Plan Options granted on or after November
1, 2015 vest in three equal and separate tranches with vesting commencing one year after the date of grant and the second and third
tranches vesting on the second and third anniversary of the grant date. Employee Plan Options are subject to withholding tax on
exercise, withholding tax is paid by the Employee Option holder to the Company prior to receipt of the shares received pursuant
to exercise.

The Company is responsible
for remittance of the withholding tax to the appropriate tax authority. As at December 31, 2017, a total of 14,155,248 options
(2016 – 14,701,541) were available to grant under the Employee Plan.

The Company’s Incentive
Stock Option Plan - Officers and Directors Plan (“D&O Plan”) consists of options (the “D&O Options”)
which are subject to a 5-year maximum term and payable in shares of the Company when vested and exercised. The D&O Plan prohibits
the re-pricing of D&O Options without shareholder approval. D&O Plan Options vest at the discretion of the Board of Directors
at the time a D&O Option is granted. Generally, D&O Plan Options granted before November 1, 2015 vest in three equal and
separate tranches with the first tranche vesting on the grant date and the second and third tranches vesting on the second and
third anniversary dates of the grant date. D&O Plan Options granted on or after November 1, 2015 vest in three equal and separate
tranches with vesting commencing one year after the date of grant and the second and third tranches vesting on the second and
third anniversary of the grant date

 
 (33)
 

19. Share-based payments (continued)

D&O Options are subject
to withholding tax on exercise, withholding tax is paid by the D&O Option holder to the Company prior to receipt of the shares
received pursuant to exercise. The Company is responsible for remittance of the withholding tax to the appropriate tax authority.
As at December 31, 2017, a total of 3,720,125 Options (2016 – 4,243,018) were available to grant under the D&O Plan.

Movements in the number of share options outstanding
and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows:

 

 
 2017
 2016

 
 Weighted
 average exercise price Cdn$
 Number
 of
 options
 Weighted
 average exercise price Cdn$
 Number
 of
 options

 At
 January 1,
 7.55
 28,896,035
 9.97
 25,519,434

 Regular
 options granted
 4.43
 5,804,535
 3.24
 9,101,164

 Exercised
 3.22
 (242,648)
 -
 -

 Forfeited
 13.44
 (4,735,349)
 11.49
 (5,724,563)

 At
 December 31,
 6.04
 29,722,573
 7.55
 28,896,035

At December 31, 2017, 18,583,426 share purchase
options (December 31, 2016 – 18,164,617) with a weighted average exercise price of Cdn$7.34 (December 31, 2016 – Cdn$9.64)
had vested and were exercisable. Options outstanding are as follows:

 
 
 December 31, 2017

 
 
 Total options outstanding
 
 Exercisable options

 
 Range of
 exercise
 price
 Cdn$
 
 
 Shares
 
 
 
 Weighted
 average
 remaining
 contractual
 life
 (years)
 
 
 Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
 Cdn$
 
 
 Shares
 
 
 
 Weighted
 average
 exercise
 price
 Cdn$

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 $3.00 to $3.99
 
 7,835,899
 
 3.1
 
 3.23
 
 2,514,519
 
 3.25

 $4.00 to $4.99
 
 5,842,935
 
 4.1
 
 4.43
 
 33,333
 
 4.23

 $5.00 to $5.99
 
 12,247
 
 3.4
 
 5.91
 
 4,082
 
 5.91

 $6.00 to $6.99
 
 6,916,166
 
 2.1
 
 6.66
 
 6,916,166
 
 6.66

 $7.00 to $7.99
 
 4,903,752
 
 1.1
 
 7.81
 
 4,903,752
 
 7.81

 $8.00 to $8.99
 
 45,405
 
 0.3
 
 8.19
 
 45,405
 
 8.19

 $10.00 to $10.99
 
 4,166,169
 
 0.2
 
 10.42
 
 4,166,169
 
 10.42

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 29,722,573
 
 2.3
 
 6.04
 
 18,583,426
 
 7.34

 

Share based payments expense related to share
options for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $6,736 (2016 – $6,812)

 
 (34)
 

 

19. Share-based payments (continued)

The assumptions used to estimate the fair value
of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were:

 
 
 2017
 
 2016

 
 
 
 
 

 Risk-free interest rate (range) (%)
 
 0.70 – 1.05
 
 0.43

 Expected volatility (range) (%)
 
 60 – 65
 
 55 – 63

 Expected life (range) (years)
 
 1.80 – 3.80
 
 1.82 – 3.82

 Expected dividends (CDN$)
 
 0.02 
 
 0.02 

 Forfeiture rate (%)
 
 11.0 
 
 11.0 

 

The weighted average fair value per stock option
was Cdn$1.53 (2016 – Cdn$1.02). Volatility was determined based on the historical volatility over the estimated lives of
the options.

(b)
Restricted share unit plan

The Company has a Restricted Share Unit plan
(“RSU Plan”) whereby restricted share units may be granted to senior management of the Company. Once vested, an RSU
is exercisable into one common share entitling the holder to receive the common share for no additional consideration. The RSUs
vest as follows: one third on the first anniversary of the grant date, one third on the second anniversary of the grant date and
one third on the third anniversary of the grant date. RSUs terminate on the third anniversary of the grant date. All RSUs which
have not been redeemed by the date of termination are automatically redeemed. Such RSUs may be redeemed in shares or cash, cash
redemptions are subject to the approval of the Board. RSU redemptions are subject to withholding tax, withholding tax is paid by
the RSU holder to the Company prior to receipt of the resultant shares or cash. Cash settlements are issued net of withholding
tax. The Company is responsible for remittance of the withholding tax to the appropriate tax authority. The current maximum number
of common shares authorized for issue under the RSU plan is 5,000,000.

A total of 936,832 RSUs (2016 – 784,203)
at a grant-date fair value of Cdn$4.49 per unit were granted during the year ended December 31, 2017 (2016 – Cdn$3.22) under
the Company’s RSU plan.

The fair value of each RSU issued is determined
as the closing share price at grant date.

A summary of the status of the RSU plan and
changes during the year is as follows:

 
 2017
 2016

 At January 1,
 1,240,174
 884,846

 Granted 
 936,832
 784,203

 Redeemed
 (349,842)
 (335,339)

 Forfeited
 (121,068)
 (93,536)

 At December 31, 
 1,706,096
 1,240,174

 

As at December 31, 2017, 1,706,096 common shares
purchased by the Company remain held in trust in connection with this plan (2016 – 549,507). At the end of the period, 596,780
restricted share units are fully vested and exercisable (2016 – 283,736). These shares purchased and held in trust have been
included in treasury stock in the balance sheet.

Restricted share units expense for the year
ended December 31, 2017 was $2,716 (2016 – $1,888).

 

 
 (35)
 

19. Share-based payments (continued)

(c)
Deferred units plan 

The Company has an Independent Directors Deferred
Unit plan (“DU Plan”) under which DU’s are granted by the Board from time to time to independent directors (“the
Participants”). DUs may be redeemed only on retirement of the independent director from the Board (the “Termination
Date”) by providing the redemption notice (“Redemption Notice”) to the Company specifying the redemption date
which shall be no later than December 15 of the first calendar year commencing after the calendar year in which the Termination
Date occurred (the “Redemption Date”). Fifteen (15) trading days after the Redemption Date but no later than
December 31 of the first calendar year commencing after the calendar year in which the Termination Date occurred, the Participant
shall have the right to receive, and shall receive, with respect to all DUs held at the Redemption Date a cash payment equal to
the market value of such DUs as of the Redemption Date. The Company will withhold income tax on redeemed DUs and is responsible
for submission of the withholding tax to the tax authority.

At December 31, 2017, 596,836 DUs were outstanding
(2016 – 498,390) with a value of $866 (2016 – $1,604), which is included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.

Deferred units compensation income for the year
ended December 31, 2017 was $1,023 (2016 – expense of $295).

(d)
Performance share units plan

The Company has a Performance Share Unit plan
(the “PSU” Plan) whereby PSUs may be granted to senior management of the Company at the discretion of the Board of
Directors. Once vested, at the option of the Company, PSU’s are redeemable as a cash payment equal to the market value of
the vested PSUs as of the Redemption Date, common shares of the Company equal to the number of vested PSUs, or a combination of
cash and shares equal to the market value of the vested PSUs, for no additional consideration from the PSU holder and to be redeemed
as soon as practicable after the Redemption Date. The Company will withhold income tax on redeemed PSUs and is responsible for
submission of the withholding tax to the tax authority.

A total of 569,719 PSUs were granted during the
year ended December 31, 2017 under the PSU Plan (2016 – 796,652). PSUs cliff vest on the third anniversary of the grant date
(the “Redemption Date”) and are subject to terms and conditions including the achievement of predetermined performance
criteria (the “Performance Criteria”). When fully vested the number of PSUs redeemed will range from 0% to 200% of
the target award, subject to the achievement of the Performance Criteria. The current maximum number of common shares authorized
for issuance from treasury under the PSU Plan is 3,130,000.

Compensation expense related to PSUs for the
year ended December 31, 2017 was $2,789 (2016 – $1,564).

 

20.Supplementary cash flow information

 
 
 December 31, 2017
 $
 
 December 31, 2016
 $

 
 
 

 Changes
 in non-cash working capital
 
 

 Accounts
 receivable and other
 (2,456)
 17,168

 Inventories
 (31,437)
 (18,264)

 Accounts
 payable and accrued liabilities
 (1,862)
 33,391

 Total
 (35,755)
 32,295

 
 
 

 Supplementary
 cash flow information
 
 

 Income
 taxes paid
 42,293
 48,653

 Interest
 paid
 36,750
 37,114

 

 
 (36)
 

21.Financial risk management

21.1 Financial risk
factors 

 Eldorado’s activities
expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk),
credit risk and liquidity risk. Eldorado’s overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets
and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on Eldorado’s financial performance. 

(a)Market risk

(i) Foreign exchange
risk

The Company operates principally
in Canada, Turkey, Brazil, Greece and Romania, and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from transactions denominated
in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are
denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency.

Eldorado’s cash and cash
equivalents, accounts receivable, marketable securities, accounts payable and accrued liabilities and debt are denominated in several
currencies, and are therefore subject to fluctuation against the U.S. dollar.

The table below summarizes Eldorado’s
exposure to the various currencies denominated in the foreign currency, as listed below:

 

 
 Canadian dollar
 Australian dollar
 Euro
 Turkish lira
 Chinese renminbi
 Serbian Dinar
 Romanian lei
 British pound
 Brazilian real

 (Amounts in thousands)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
 18,280 
 482 
 13,030 
 4,965 
 77 
 4,845 
 9,730 
 366 
 15,991 

 Marketable securities
 6,286 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 

 Accounts receivable and other
 13,706 
 4 
 24,508 
 60,111 
 - 
 43,157 
 7,542 
 - 
 12,547 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 (30,900)
 (42)
 (45,751)
 (50,099)
 - 
 (9,000)
 (6,174)
 - 
 (5,559)

 Other non-current liability
 (1,269)
 - 
 (6,516)
 (17,999)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 

 Net balance
 6,103 
 444 
 (14,729)
 (3,022)
 77 
 39,002 
 11,098 
 366 
 22,979 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Equivalent in U.S. dollars
 $ 4,865 
 $ 347 
 $ (17,664)
 $ (802)
 $ 12 
 $ 394 
 $ 2,874 
 $ 495 
 $ 6,946 

 

Based on the balances as at December
31, 2017, a 1% increase/decrease in the U.S. dollar exchange rate against all of the other currencies on that date would have resulted
in a decrease/increase of approximately $25 in profit (loss) before taxes. There would be no effect on other comprehensive income.

Cash flows from operations
are exposed to foreign exchange risk, as commodity sales are set in U.S. dollars and a certain amount of operating expenses are
in the currency of the country in which mining operations take place.

(ii) Metal price risk and
other price risk

Eldorado is subject to price risk for fluctuations
in the market price of gold and other metals. Gold and other metals prices are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s
control, including central bank sales, producer hedging activities, the relative exchange rate of the U.S. dollar with other major
currencies, global and regional demand and political and economic conditions.

Worldwide gold and other metals
production levels also affect their prices, and the price of these metals is occasionally subject to rapid short-term changes due
to speculative activities. The Company has elected not to actively manage its exposure to metal price risk at this time. From time
to time, Eldorado may use commodity price contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in the price of gold and other metals.

 
 (37)
 

 

 

21.Financial risk management (continued)

Other price risk is the risk
that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of changes in market prices.

Eldorado’s other price risk includes equity
price risk, whereby the Company’s investments in marketable securities are subject to market price fluctuation.

(iii) Interest rate risk

Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value
of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates. Current financial assets
and financial liabilities are generally not exposed to interest rate risk because of their short-term nature. The Company’s
debt is in the form of notes with a fixed interest rate of 6.13%. However borrowings under the ARCA are at variable rates of interest
and any borrowings would expose the Company to interest rate cost and interest rate risk.

(b) Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial
instrument will fail to discharge an obligation and cause the other party to incur a financial loss. Financial instruments that
potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, term deposits and accounts
receivable. Eldorado deposits its cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash, and its term deposits with high credit
quality financial institutions as determined by rating agencies.

Payment for metal sales is normally in advance
or within fifteen days of shipment depending on the buyer. The historical level of customer defaults is negligible which reduces
the credit risk associated with trade receivables at December 31, 2016.

(c) Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will
encounter difficulty in raising funds to meet commitments associated with financial instruments. The Company manages liquidity
by maintaining adequate cash and cash equivalent balances and by using its lines of credit as required. Management monitors and
reviews both actual and forecasted cash flows, and also matches the maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities. Contractual
maturities relating to debt are included in note 14.

21.2 Capital risk management

Eldorado’s policy is to maintain a strong
capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of our mining projects.
Capital consists of all of the components of equity; share capital from ordinary shares, contributed surplus, accumulated other
comprehensive income, deficit and non-controlling interests.

Consistent with others in the industry, Eldorado
monitors capital on the basis of the debt to capital ratio and Net Debt to EBITDA. The debt to capital ratio is calculated as debt,
including current and non-current debt, divided by capital plus debt. The Net Debt to EBITDA ratio is calculated as debt, including
current and non-current debt, less cash, cash equivalents and term deposits, divided by earnings before interest costs, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. This policy includes a target debt to capital ratio of less than 30% and a Net Debt to EBITDA target
ratio below 3.5.

As at December 31, 2017, our debt to capital
ratio was 13.8% (2016 – 14.0%) and our Net Debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.9:1
(2016 – -1.7:1).

These policy targets are managed through the
repayments and issuances of debt as well as the continuing management of operations and capital expenditures.

 

 

 
 (38)
 

 

21.Financial risk management (continued)

21.3 Fair value estimation

Fair values are determined directly by reference
to published price quotations in an active market, when available, or by using a valuation technique that uses inputs observed
from relevant markets.

The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are
described below:

·Level 1 – Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement
date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities.

·Level 2 – Inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, but do not qualify
as Level 1 inputs (i.e.,quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities).

·Level 3 – Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant
to the fair value measurement and unobservable (i.e., supported by little or no market activity).

The assets and liabilities measured at fair value
as at December 31, 2017 are marketable securities and derivatives related to the Company’s metal hedge positions.

Eldorado entered into a strip of zero-cost Asian-style
collars. The collars are intended to protect the price of our lead and zinc production from the Stratoni and Olympias mines. 
The collars set a band within which the Company can protect movements, either above or below specific strike prices. The commodity
reference prices are based on the monthly averages as traded on the London Mercantile Exchange and are quoted in U.S. dollars. 

With respect to lead, the collar protects the
Company at a minimum price of $2,300 per tonne. It also caps or limits the price per the schedule below. Similarly, for zinc,
the minimum price is $2,850 per tonne and the cap or limits are also per the schedule below. The contacts have monthly maturities
for the calendar 2018 year, with the final contract maturing on December 31, 2018.

Should the price of each metal average below
the floor, the Company will benefit from the hedge position and counterparty will have a settlement owing to us. Inversely,
if the average monthly price exceeds the limit or cap the Company will have a settlement owing to the Counterparty. The hedge
covers 15,336 tonnes of lead and 25,416 tonnes of zinc. A summary of the positions are listed below:

 Metal
 Hedged Amount (Tonnes)
 PUT ($/tonne)
 CALL ($/tonne)
 Maturity

 Lead
 7,668
 $2,300
 $2,625
 Jan 2018 – Jun 2018

 Lead
 7,668
 $2,300
 $2,735
 Jul 2018 – Dec 2018

 
 
 
 
 

 Zinc
 12,708
 $2,850
 $3,470
 Jan 2018 – Jun 2018

 Zinc
 12,708 (*)
 $2,850
 $3,600
 Jul 2018 – Dec 2018

(*) entered subsequent
to December 31, 2017.

As of December 31, 2017, the Company’s derivative
liability of $837, which is considered level 2, is included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities in our consolidated balance
sheet. The net mark-to-market loss of the hedge contracts for the same amount is presented in gain (loss) on marketable securities
and other investments in our consolidated income statement.

The fair value of financial instruments traded
in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are
readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those
prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used
for financial assets held by the group is the current bid price. These instruments are included in Level 1. Instruments included
in Level 1 comprise primarily publicly-traded equity investments classified as held-for-trading securities or available-for-sale
securities. With the exception of the fair market value of the Company’s senior notes (note 14b), which are included in level
2, all carrying amounts of financial instruments approximate their fair value.

 
 (39)
 

 

 

22.Commitments

The Company’s contractual
obligations, not recorded on the balance sheet, at December 31, 2017, include:

 
 
 
 2018
 $
 
 
 2019
 $
 
 
 2020
 $
 
 
 2021 and later
 $

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Leases
 
 14,953
 
 11,676
 
 10,688
 
 60,958

 Purchase obligations
 
 47,614
 
 722
 
 100
 
 152

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Totals
 
 62,567
 
 12,398
 
 10,788
 
 61,110

Purchase obligations in 2018 relate primarily
to mine development expenditures in Greece as well as operating costs in Turkey.

 

23.Contingencies

The Company is involved in legal proceedings
from time to time, arising in the ordinary course of its business. As at December 31, 2017, the amount of ultimate liability with
respect to these actions will not, in the opinion of management, materially affect Eldorado’s financial position, results
of operations or cash flows. Accordingly, no amounts have been accrued as at December 31, 2017.

On September 14, 2017, Hellas Gold received formal
notice from the Greek Ministry of Finance and Ministry of the Environment and Energy initiating Greek domestic arbitration proceedings. 
The arbitration notice alleged that the Technical Study for the Madem Lakkos Metallurgical Plant for treating Olympias and Skouries
concentrates in the Stratoni Valley (known as Olympias Phase III), submitted in December 2014, is deficient and thereby is in violation
of the Transfer Contract and the environmental terms of the project. The arbitration proceedings are expected to conclude
by April 6, 2018. While arbitration proceedings are inherently uncertain, the Company is confident that the Technical Study is
robust and consistent with the Transfer Contract, the Business Plan and the approved environmental terms of the project.

 

24.Related party transactions

Key management includes directors (executive and
non-executive), officers and senior management. The compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services, including
amortization of share based payments, is shown below:

 
 
 2017
 2016

 
 
 $
 $

 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits
 
 9,515 
 8,152 

 Defined benefit pension plan
 
 754 
 1,350 

 Share based payments
 
 5,920 
 5,326 

 
 
 16,189 
 14,828 

 
 (40)
 

 

25.Financial instruments by category

Fair value

The following table provides the
carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016:

 
 December 31, 2017
 
 December 31, 2016

 
 Carrying amount
 Fair value
 
 Carrying amount
 Fair value

 
 $
 $
 
 $
 $

 Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
 

 Available-for-sale 
 
 
 
 
 

 Marketable securities
 5,010 
 5,010 
 
 28,327 
 28,327 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Loans and receivables
 
 
 
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
 479,501 
 479,501 
 
 883,171 
 883,171 

 Term deposit
 5,508 
 5,508 
 
 5,292 
 5,292 

 Restricted cash
 310 
 310 
 
 240 
 240 

 Accounts receivable and other
 33,627 
 33,627 
 
 32,159 
 32,159 

 Other assets
 17,517 
 17,517 
 
 1,810 
 1,810 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 Financial Liabilities at amortized cost
 
 
 
 
 

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 110,651 
 110,651 
 
 90,705 
 90,705 

 Debt
 593,783 
 595,698 
 
 591,589 
 609,000 

 

26.Production costs

 
 2017
 2016

 
 $
 $

 
 
 

 Labour
 52,670 
 55,223 

 Fuel
 23,241 
 22,405 

 Reagents
 40,839 
 35,292 

 Electricity
 12,132 
 13,991 

 Mining contractors
 12,575 
 16,028 

 Operating and maintenance supplies and services
 56,342 
 45,376 

 Site general and administrative costs
 23,621 
 20,394 

 Inventory change
 (36,501)
 (19,510)

 Royalties, production taxes and selling expenses
 7,821 
 5,470 

 
 192,740 
 194,669 

 

 
 (41)
 

 

27.Earnings per share

The weighted average number of
ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share reconciles to the weighted average number of ordinary shares used
in the calculation of basic earnings per share as follows:

 

 
 2017
 2016

 
 
 

 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation
 
 

 of basic earnings per share
 753,565 
 716,587 

 Diluted impact of stock options
 - 
 6 

 
 
 

 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation
 
 

 of diluted earnings per share
 753,565 
 716,593 

 

28.Segment information

Identification of reportable
segments

The Company has identified its
operating segments based on the internal reports that are reviewed and used by the chief executive officer and the executive management
(the chief operating decision makers or CODM) in assessing performance and in determining the allocation of resources.

The CODM considers the business
from both a geographic and product perspective and assesses the performance of the operating segments based on measures of profit
and loss as well as assets and liabilities. These measures include operating profit, expenditures on exploration, property, plant
and equipment and non-current assets, as well as total debt. As at December 31, 2017, Eldorado had six reportable segments based
on the geographical location of mining and exploration and development activities.

28.1 Geographical
segments 

Geographically, the operating
segments are identified by country and by operating mine or mine under construction. The Turkey reporting segment includes the
Kişladağ and the Efemçukuru mines and exploration activities in Turkey. The Brazil reporting segment includes
the Vila Nova mine, Tocantinzinho project and exploration activities in Brazil. The Greece reporting segment includes the Stratoni
and Olympias mines, the Skouries, Perama Hill and Sapes projects and exploration activities in Greece. The Romania reporting segment
includes the Certej project and exploration activities in Romania. The Canada reporting segment includes the Lamaque project and
exploration activities in Canada. Other reporting segment includes operations of Eldorado’s corporate office and exploration
activities in other countries.

Financial information about
each of these operating segments is reported to the CODM on at least a monthly basis. The mines in each of the different segments
share similar economic characteristics and have been aggregated accordingly.

 

 2017
 Turkey
 Brazil
 Greece
 Romania
 Other
 Canada
 Total

 
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $

 Information about profit and loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Metal sales from external customers
 337,907 
 2,347 
 51,152 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 391,406 

 Production costs
 145,573 
 1,824 
 45,343 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 192,740 

 Inventory write-down
 - 
 - 
 444 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 444 

 Depreciation
 71,389 
 - 
 466 
 - 
 269
 6
 72,130 

 Gross profit (loss)
 120,945 
 523 
 4,899
 - 
 (269)
 (6)
 126,092 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Other material items of income and expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Write-down (write-up) of assets
 29,619 
 (79)
 6,661 
 10,454 
 42 
 - 
 46,697

 Exploration costs
 3,203 
 4,733
 7,512 
 10,168 
 6,029 
 6,616 
 38,261 

 Income tax expense (recovery)
 30,139 
 (1,087)
 (4,603)
 (8,026)
 1,428
 1,532
 19,383 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Additions to property, plant and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 equipment during the period
 65,013 
 10,029 
 233,293 
 2,006 
 827 
 35,820 
 346,988 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Information about assets and liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Property, plant and equipment (*)
 835,422 
 196,467 
 2,362,107 
 415,856 
 750 
 416,795 
 4,227,397 

 Goodwill
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 92,591 
 92,591 

 
 835,422 
 196,467 
 2,362,107 
 415,856 
 750 
 509,386 
 4,319,988 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Debt
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 593,783 
 - 
 593,783 

 

 
 (42)
 

 

28. Segment information (continued)

 2016
 Turkey
 Brazil
 Greece
 Romania
 Other
 Total

 
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $
 $

 Information about profit and loss
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Metal sales from external customers
 392,096 
 - 
 40,631 
 - 
 - 
 432,727 

 Production costs
 159,632 
 - 
 35,037 
 - 
 - 
 194,669 

 Depreciation
 74,061 
 - 
 543 
 2 
 281
 74,887 

 Gross profit (loss)
 158,403 
 - 
 5,051
 (2)
 (281)
 163,171 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Other material items of income and expense
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Write-down (write-up) of assets
 626 
 (798)
 4,701 
 - 
 - 
 4,529 

 Exploration costs
 2,278 
 3,503
 3,091 
 1,892 
 8,009 
 18,773 

 Income tax expense (recovery)
 64,343 
 (4,385)
 (1,355)
 (1,053)
 (1,345)
 56,205 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Additions to property, plant and
 
 
 
 
 
 

 equipment during the period
 65,674 
 6,057 
 210,770 
 15,953 
 50 
 298,504 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Information about assets and liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Property, plant and equipment (*)
 885,629 
 186,606 
 2,157,822 
 413,949 
 1,821 
 3,645,827 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Debt
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 591,589 
 591,589 

* Net of revenues from sale
of pre-commercial production and tailings retreatment

 

The Turkey segment derives their
revenues from sales of gold. The Brazil segment derives its revenue from sales of iron ore. The Greece segment derives its revenue
from sales of gold, zinc, lead and silver concentrates.

28.2 Seasonality/cyclicality of operations

Management does not consider operations to be of a significant seasonal or cyclical nature.

 

 

 
 (43)