EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS RELEASE

 

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO 

December
14, 2021

 

Eldorado Gold Successfully Completes Key Growth
Projects

at
Lamaque and Kisladag; Provides Notice of Skouries Project
Feasibility Study Update and Conference Call

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado” “the
Company”) is pleased to announce the completion of the
Triangle-Sigma decline at Lamaque and the construction and wet
commissioning of the high-pressure grinding rolls
(“HPGR”) circuit at Kisladag. Both growth projects were
approved in 2020, just prior to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The decline at Lamaque was delivered on budget and on schedule. The
Kisladag HPGR project was two months delayed due to COVID-19
related slower than planned equipment delivery. The project however
was delivered within budget.

 

"The
successful completion of these two key organic growth projects
marks an important milestone as we continue to deliver on executing
our growth plans," said George Burns, President and CEO. "Both
projects were completed safely, within budget, and to a large
extent, in line with the schedule. The decline connecting the
Triangle mine and the Sigma mill at Lamaque will replace the
current route with a straight-line haulage to the mill, eliminating
surface haulage costs and reducing GHG emissions. The addition of
the Kisladag HPGR is expected to have an immediate positive impact
and increase recoveries by approximately 4%. I would like to thank
and congratulate the project teams at Lamaque and Kisladag for the
safe and successful completion of both projects."

 

Triangle-Sigma Decline
 

The
completion of the Triangle-Sigma decline project, connecting the
ore transportation ramp between the Triangle mine and the Sigma
processing plant, is expected to provide multiple near-term and
long-term benefits as the Company continues to grow production at
Lamaque. The project included approximately 3,200 meters of
development, completed within the 18-month schedule and within the
US$24 million cost estimate.

 

Benefits
of the Triangle-Sigma decline include:

●
Eliminates surface
rehandling and haulage (approximately 26 kilometres, and 50-minutes
round trip) of the ore from the Triangle mine to the Sigma mill,
reducing costs and carbon emissions, and removing haulage traffic
from public roads.

●
Provides
underground access for lower-cost exploration in the prospective
area between the Triangle mine and the historic Sigma and Lamaque
mines – including further drilling of the Ormaque, Plug 4 and
Parallel deposits.

●
Facilitates
increased future production from the Triangle mine (contingent on
continued reserve expansion) and allows for mining of satellite
deposits.

●
Reduces the energy
requirements for mine ventilation.

●
Provides a means of
secondary egress and ventilation from the Triangle mine, increasing
safety underground.

 

Kisladag HPGR Circuit
 

Commissioning
of the HPGR circuit has been completed and the circuit is now
ramping up to production and metallurgical specifications. The HPGR
circuit is a key growth project that is expected to increase heap
leach life of mine recovery by an estimated 4% to approximately
56%. The Company believes there is potential to further increase
recovery with additional optimization of the HPGR circuit, which
could lead to higher gold production. The project was completed
within the US$35 million cost estimate over a two-year
period.

 

Skouries Project Feasibility Study Update and Conference
Call
 

Eldorado
will announce the results of the Feasibility Study on the Company's
wholly-owned Skouries project, part of the Kassandra Mines, in the
Halkidiki Peninsula in northern Greece, on Wednesday, December 15,
2021, after market close. The Company will hold a conference call
to discuss the Skouries Feasibility Study on Wednesday, December
15, 2021, at 6:00 PM ET.

 

The
call will be webcast and can be accessed at Eldorado Gold's
website: www.eldoradogold.com,
or via: https://services.choruscall.ca/links/eldoradogold20211215.html

 

Conference
Call Details

Replay
(available until January 19, 2022)

 

Date:

December 15,
2021

Vancouver:

+1 604 638
3010

Time:

6:00 PM ET (3:00 PM
PT)

Toll
Free: 

1 800 319
6413

Dial
in:

+1 604 638
5340

Access
code:

8125 

Toll
free: 

1 800 319
4610

 

 

 

 

 

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, and Romania. The
Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce, safe and
responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality assets, and
long-term partnerships with local communities. Eldorado's common
shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

Contact
 

Investor Relations
 

Lisa
Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757
2237 or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com
 

Media
 

Louise
McMahon, Director Communications & Public Affairs

604.757
5573 or 1.888.363.8166

louise.mcmahon@eldoradogold.com

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: the impact of the Triangle-Sigma decline on surface
haulage costs and GHG emissions, future exploration and production
activities and mine safety; the impacts of the Kisladag HPGR on
expected future recoveries; further optimizations of the HPGR
circuit and the impacts thereof on production and timing for the
release of the Skouries Feasibility Study. Forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information by their nature are
based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, market
uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about: benefits
of the Triangle-Sigma decline, benefits of the improvements at
Kisladag; how the world-wide economic and social impact of COVID-19
is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic;
timing and cost of construction and exploration; the geopolitical,
economic, permitting and legal climate that we operate in; the
future price of gold and other commodities; the global concentrate
market; exchange rates; anticipated costs, expenses and working
capital requirements; production, mineral reserves and resources
and metallurgical recoveries; the impact of acquisitions,
dispositions, suspensions or delays on our business; and the
ability to achieve our goals. In particular, except where otherwise
stated, we have assumed a continuation of existing business
operations on substantially the same basis as exists at the time of
this release.

 

 

 

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: inability to
achieve the benefits of the Triangle-Sigma decline; inability to
achieve the benefits of the Kisladag HPGR; global outbreaks of
infectious diseases, including COVID-19; timing and cost of
construction, and the associated benefits; recoveries of gold and
other metals; geopolitical and economic climate (global and local),
risks related to mineral tenure and permits; gold and other
commodity price volatility; information technology systems risks;
continued softening of the global concentrate market; risks
regarding potential and pending litigation and arbitration
proceedings relating to our business, properties and operations;
expected impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of
the reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; financing risks; foreign country
operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks
and liabilities including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production;
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and
recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative
nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility and
the price of our common shares; competition; loss of key employees;
and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well as
those risk factors discussed in the sections titled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our
business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the
detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion
is incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

 

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.

 

The scientific and technical disclosure of the exploration results
from the Quebec based projects were reviewed and approved by Mehdi
Bouanani. P.Eng, OIQ #5000741, a qualified person as defined by N1
43-101. Except as otherwise noted, scientific and technical
information contained in this press release was reviewed and
approved by Simon Hille, FAusIMM and VP Technical Services for the
Company, and a "qualified person" under NI 43-101.