EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

Exhibit
99.1

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

 June
23, 2021

 

Eldorado
Gold Releases 9th Annual
Sustainability Report
 

 

VANCOUVER - BC
– Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) is pleased to release its 2020
Sustainability Report (the “Report”), titled
Sustainability from the Ground
Up, which includes details of the Company’s
Sustainability Framework and its Environmental, Social and
Governance (“ESG”) performance.
 
 

The
Report is our 9th annual published
report and has been prepared in accordance with the Global
Reporting Initiative ("GRI") core standards and the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board ("SASB") Metals & Mining
standard. 
 

The
Report is available on Eldorado Gold’s website (https://www.eldoradogold.com/responsibility)
and has been filed on SEDAR (www.sedar.com).
 

Report
Highlights
 

●
The articulation of
a global Sustainability Framework that outlines our commitments to
operating responsibly. These include: fostering safe, inclusive and
innovative operations; building engaged and prosperous communities;
delivering responsibly produced products; and creating a healthy
environment now and for the future.

 

●
Development of a
Company-wide Sustainability Integrated Management System
(“SIMS”), which sets out minimum standards to measure
and track our ESG performance in line with industry-leading
standards and frameworks.

 

●
Achievement of our
sustainability-related Corporate scorecard targets for 2020, which
included our 2020 environmental and Health & Safety
performance, as well as the development of SIMS.

 

Safe, inclusive, and innovated operations
 

●
Successful
management of COVID-19 through the implementation of strict
protocols to keep our people safe and our operations performing to
guidance.

 

●
Achievement of
gender parity on our Board as well as a 33% female hire rate in
Canada, up from 18% female hire rate in 2019.

 

Engaged and prosperous communities
 

●
Support for
in-country community projects, with total spending of US$3M,
including critical infrastructure, access to education and health
care to advance sustainable development in the regions where we
operate. Payments to in-country suppliers accounted for US$417M, or
85% of total supplier spending.

 

 

 

 

Responsibly produced products
 

●
Adopting the World
Gold Council’s Responsible Gold Mining initiative and
completing external assurance for Year One.

 

Healthy environment now and for the future
 

●
Development of an
energy and carbon management system to identify opportunities for
energy efficiency and Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) reductions
across our business.

 

●
Commitment to
disclosing our climate strategy in line with the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosure (“TCFD”) and
establishing targets for GHG reductions which we aim to share with
stakeholders later this year.

 

●
Reclaiming more
than 10 hectares of land to its original state.

 

George Burns, Eldorado’s President
and CEO said, “Eldorado is committed to integrating
sustainability from the ground up in all our business practices to
create long-term value for our stakeholders. We are focused on the
highest safety and environmental standards, establishing and
maintaining prosperous and positive relationships with our
communities and host governments, and creating real, lasting and
tangible benefits for the people whose lives our operations touch.
To create the tomorrow we desire, we know that care and attention
is required in our business decisions today. I’m particularly
proud of the progress our teams have delivered to take action on
climate change as well as embed inclusive diversity within our
business. Together, we are raising the bar for sustainable mining
practices.”
 

Judith Mosely, Chair of Eldorado’s Sustainabilty
Committee said, “How an organization governs sustainability
is as vital as the performance metrics it discloses. Eldorado
created a very solid foundation for sustainability in 2020 and has
delivered on strengthening its sustainability governance. Eldorado
is well positioned to deliver on stakeholder expectations as it
continues to build a sustainable, high-quality business in the gold
mining sector.”
 

Feedback
 

We welcome feedback from all stakeholders regarding our
sustainability reporting. Please direct comments or requests for
further information to sustainability@eldoradogold.com.
 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:
ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations

Lisa
Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757.2237
or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications and Government
Relations

604.601.6679
or 1.888.363.8166

louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com

 

 

 

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the statements made and
information provided in this press release are forward-looking
statements or information within the meaning of the United States
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable
Canadian securities laws. Often, these forward-looking statements
and forward-looking information can be identified by the use of
words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
“continue”, “projected”, "scheduled",
"estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes"
or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could",
"would", "might" or "will" be taken, occur or be achieved.
Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: implementing the Sustainability Framework 
and SIMs and the ability to meet the same; establishing
sustainability and environmental targets, goals and strategies,
including related to GHG emissions, and the ability to meet the
same; implementing the Sustainability Framework and SIMs;
meeting diversity and safety goals; our expectations regarding
establishment of resources through our continued exploration
programs, the timing and quantity of annual gold production; our
strategy with respect to non-core assets; mineral reserves and
resources, our guidance and outlook, including expected production
and recoveries of gold, planned capital and exploration
expenditures; our expectation as to our future financial and
operating performance, expected metallurgical recoveries, gold
price outlook; and our strategy, plans and goals, including our
proposed exploration, development, construction, permitting and
operating plans and priorities, including timelines and
schedules.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information, including
assumptions about: how the world-wide economic and social impact of
COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; the completion and results of our exploration programs;
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries, the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; the
global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated costs and
expenses; production, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions,
suspensions or delays on our business and the ability to achieve
our goals. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this release.
Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: inability to
meet sustainability, environmental, diversity or safety targets,
goals and strategies; inability to implement meet the
Sustainability Framework and SIMs ; global outbreaks of
infectious diseases, including COVID-19; timing and cost of
construction and exploration, geopolitical and economic climate
(global and local), risks related to the updating of our resource
and reserve models and life of mine plans; mineral tenure and
permits; gold and other commodity price volatility; information
technology systems risks; continued softening of the global
concentrate market, recoveries of gold and other metals; results of
test work; revised guidance; risks regarding potential and pending
litigation and arbitration proceedings relating to the
Company’s, business, properties and operations; expected
impact on reserves and the carrying value; mining operational and
development risk; financing risks; foreign country operational
risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks and
liabilities including, regulatory environment and restrictions, and
environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies
between actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and
resources and metallurgical testing and recoveries; additional
funding requirements; currency fluctuations; community and
non-governmental organization actions; speculative nature of gold
exploration; dilution; share price volatility and the price of our
common shares; competition; loss of key employees; and defective
title to mineral claims or properties, as well as those risk
factors discussed in the sections titled “Forward-Looking
Information and Risks” and "Risk factors in our business" in
the Company's most recent Annual Information Form & Form 40-F.
The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on
SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.