EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE DATED DECEMBER 24, 2021

ego_ex991

 Exhibit
99.1

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO 

 December
24, 2021

Eldorado Gold Announces Normal Course Issuer Bid

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) announces that the Toronto Stock
Exchange (the “TSX”) has accepted for filing the
Eldorado’s Notice in respect of a normal course issuer bid
(the “NCIB”) to be transacted through the facilities of
the TSX and/or through alternative trading systems, including the
New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).

 

Pursuant
to the NCIB, Eldorado may purchase up to 1,421,373 of its common
shares (the “Shares”) representing approximately 0.8%
of the total 182,659,032 common shares of the Eldorado issued and
outstanding as at December 17, 2021. Purchases will be made at
prevailing market prices commencing December 30, 2021 (other than
for purchases through the NYSE, which will commence January 29,
2022) and ending December 29, 2022. Pursuant to TSX policies, daily
purchases will not exceed 
109,140 common shares, other than block purchase
exceptions. The average daily trading volume for the six months
period prior to December 1, 2021 was 436,561 common shares.
Purchases under the NCIB will depend on future market
conditions. Purchases
will also be made on the NYSE in accordance with applicable U.S.
securities laws.

 

Eldorado
has engaged National Bank Financial Inc. (the “Broker”)
as its broker under an automatic share purchase plan to undertake
purchases under the NCIB. During the term of the automatic share
purchase plan, Eldorado will not communicate any material
undisclosed information to the trading staff at the Broker, and
accordingly the Broker may make purchases regardless of whether a
blackout period is in effect or whether there is material
undisclosed information about Eldorado at the time purchases are
made.

 

Eldorado
believes that the purchase of the Shares would be an effective use
of its funds and is an effective strategy to enable it to satisfy
its future obligations under its employee restricted share unit
plan.

 

Eldorado
has not repurchased any of its common shares by way of a normal
course issuer bid in the previous 12 months.

 

A copy
of Eldorado’s Notice filed with the TSX may be obtained, by
any shareholder without charge, by contacting Eldorado’s
Corporate Secretary.

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece and Romania. The
Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce, safe and
responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality assets, and
long-term partnerships with local communities. Eldorado's common
shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

 
1

 

 

Contact
 

Investor Relations
 

Lisa
Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757
2237 or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com
 

Media
 

Louise
McMahon, Director Communications & Public Affairs

604.757
5573 or 1.888.363.8166

louise.mcmahon@eldoradogold.com

 

Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements and
Information

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, market uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about: general
market conditions, including prevailing market prices of our common
shares and other available investment and business opportunities.
In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have assumed a
continuation of existing business operations on substantially the
same basis as exists at the time of this release.

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: our
assumptions relating to general market conditions, including
prevailing market prices of our common shares, and other available
investment and business opportunities, as well as those risk
factors discussed in the sections titled “Forward-Looking
Statements” and "Risk factors in our business" in the
Company's most recent Annual Information Form & Form 40-F. The
reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk discussion
in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR and EDGAR
under our Company name, which discussion is incorporated by
reference in this release, for a fuller understanding of the risks
and uncertainties that affect the Company’s business and
operations.

 

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.

 

2