EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Blueprint

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

 September
28, 2018

 

Eldorado Gold Provides Q3 2018 Conference Call Details and
Corporate Update

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) provides the following
updates.
 

Q3 2018 Financial and Operational Results
 

Eldorado
Gold will release its Q3 2018 Financial and Operational Results
after the market closes on Thursday, October 25, 2018 and will host
a conference call on Friday, October 26, 2018 at 11:30am ET (8:30am
PT). The call will be webcast and can be accessed at Eldorado
Gold’s website: www.eldoradogold.com
 

Conference
Call Details 

Replay
(available until November 30, 2018) 

 Date:

 Friday October 26,
2018

 Toronto:

 416 849
0833

 Time:

 8:30 am PT (11:30
am ET)

 Toll
Free:

 1 855 859
2056

 Dial
in:

 647 427
7450

 Pass
code:

 4677
738

 Toll
free:

 1 888 231
8191

 

 

 

Senior Management Update
 

Further
to the Company’s announcement on July 11, 2018, Philip Yee
joined Eldorado as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer on September 24, 2018. Charles Parker, Acting CFO, will
resume his role as Corporate Controller. The Company wishes to
thank Charlie for his hard work in managing Eldorado’s
Finance department in recent months.
 

New York Stock Exchange Minimum Share Price
Requirement
 

New
York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) regulations stipulate that
listed issuers must maintain a minimum average closing share price
of US$1.00 per share calculated over a period of 30 consecutive
trading days. Eldorado received notice from the NYSE that the
Company was below criteria regarding this requirement on April 18,
2018 and again on September 11, 2018. The Company sought and
received shareholder approval at its Annual and Special Meeting on
June 21, 2018, to amend the Company’s articles to allow for
the implementation of a share consolidation with a ratio of
5-for-1, prior to December 31, 2018.
 

The
Board will review the merits of a share consolidation, taking into
consideration the best interests of the Company, its trading price
and the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.
 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Greece, Romania, Serbia, Canada
and Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto
Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).

 

 
1

 

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to the proposed share consolidation.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information in this this release. Even though our
management believes that the assumptions made and the expectations
represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there
can be no assurance that the forward-looking statement or
information will prove to be accurate. Many assumptions may be
difficult to predict and are beyond our control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: geopolitical and economic climate (global and local),
risks related to mineral tenure and permits; gold and other
commodity price volatility; recoveries of gold and other metals;
results of test work; revised guidance; risks regarding potential
and pending litigation and arbitration proceedings relating to the
Company’s, business, properties and operations; expected
impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of the
reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; foreign country operational
risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks and
liabilities including, regulatory environment and restrictions, and
environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies
between actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and
resources and metallurgical testing and recoveries; risks related
to the impact of the sale of our Chinese assets and the acquisition
and integration of Integra on the Company’s operations;
additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations; community
and non-governmental organization actions; speculative nature of
gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility; competition;
loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral claims or
properties, as well as those risk factors discussed in the sections
titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors
in our business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information
Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review
the detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information
Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.

 

Contact
 

Investor Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018
or 1.888.353.8166

peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications and Government
Relations

604.601.6679
or 1.888.353.8166

louiseb@eldoradogold.com

 

 
2