EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 Exhibit 99.1

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

 

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO

February 22, 2021

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Maiden Inferred Mineral Resource of 803,000
Ounces at 9.5 g/t Gold at the Ormaque Deposit in
Quebec

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold
Corporation, (“Eldorado” or the
“Company”) is pleased to announce a maiden resource
estimate for the recently-discovered Ormaque deposit near its
Lamaque operations (Figure 1) in Quebec. Inferred Mineral Resources
total 2,620,000 tonnes at a grade of 9.53 grams per tonne gold, for
803,000 ounces of contained gold.
 

“This
early exploration success at Ormaque highlights the outstanding
growth potential at Lamaque,” said George Burns, President
and CEO. “The short time frame from initial discovery
to maiden inferred resource is a testament to the drive of our team
and the strong exploration potential within our land package in the
Abitibi Greenstone Belt. The strike continuity, vein
orientation and dimensions of the Ormaque deposit exhibit important
similarities to parts of the nearby historically mined Sigma
deposit and Mine #2. It is ideally positioned along the ore
haulage decline now under construction connecting the
Lamaque-Triangle Mine with the Sigma Mill. Our focus in 2021
is on in-fill and expansion drilling as the deposit remains open in
multiple directions. We are encouraged by these positive results
and look forward to further work to determine the ultimate scale of
this exciting early stage project.
 

“Taken
together with our recently-announced friendly transaction to
acquire QMX, Eldorado is well-positioned in Quebec to create
additional value for our stakeholders.”
 

Ormaque Deposit Geology and Inferred Mineral Resource
 

The
Ormaque deposit is located approximately midway between the
Lamaque-Triangle Mine and the Sigma Processing Facility. It is
immediately adjacent to the ore haulage decline currently under
construction linking the two, with the upper part of the deposit at
the same elevation as the decline (Figure 2). At current
development rates the decline will reach a position adjacent to the
Ormaque deposit in Q3 of 2021.
 

High
grade gold at Ormaque occurs within subhorizontal to gently
south-dipping lenses consisting of quartz+carbonate+tourmaline
extension veins and vein arrays and tourmaline-altered wallrock,
similar in style to those historically mined in parts of the nearby
Sigma Deposit (historical production of 4.5M ounces gold) and Mine
#2 Deposit (over 237,000 ounces gold produced between 1950 and
1955). The extension veins are concentrated along an east-west
corridor defined by a series of steeply north-dipping
brittle-ductile shear zones. Nearly all of the deposit outlined to
date occurs within an irregular diorite intrusion known locally as
the “C-Porphyry”, which is also the dominant host rock
at Sigma and Mine #2.
 

Inferred
Mineral Resources are based on results of 37 diamond drillholes
totalling 22,602 meters, most of which were completed since May
2018. This drilling has outlined a volume of mineralization
measuring approximately 550 metres east-west, 300 metres
north-south, and extending from 150 to 600 metres depth from
surface. The geological model of the mineralized lenses was
generated by 1) converting individual assays to composites of drill
core intervals averaging > 0.5 g/t Au and a minimum length of
0.5m; 2) creating form interpolants using vein orientations of the
dominant mineralized vein sets measured from oriented drill core;
and 3) employing the form interpolants to correlate composites
between drillholes. This process generated 23 gently-dipping
mineralized lenses, with individual lenses measuring up to 15
metres thick and up to 400 metres in lateral extent (Figure 3).
Individual lenses were then trimmed to exclude volumes more than 50
metres from drillhole intercepts.

 

 

 

 

A grade
estimation block model was generated using ordinary kriging of
drillhole assays composited into 1m lengths and capped at 70 g/t Au
to limit the influence of high-grade outliers. A 3.5 g/t cut-off
grade was applied to incorporate areas of mineralization with
reasonable prospects of eventual economic extraction. The cut-off
grade was derived from actual cost and metallurgical performance of
the Triangle deposit and includes the following forward-looking
assumptions:
 

●
Gold price = $US
1800/oz

 

●
$CAD / $US exchange
rate = 1.3

 

●
Minimum mining
height = 3 metres

 

●
Mining recovery =
95%

 

●
Mining dilution =
20% with no contained gold value

 

●
Metallurgical
recovery = 96%

 

Mineralized
domains were edited to excluded volumes that did not meet or exceed
a diluted cut-off grade of 3.5 g/t Au over the minimum mining
height of 3 metres. Isolated cells above cut-off were also
discarded.
 

The
resulting inferred resource totals 2,620,000 tonnes at a grade of
9.53 g/t Au, for 803,000 contained ounces of gold. Over 60% of the
resource is in the upper part of the deposit within 400 metres of
surface.
 

Exploration Outlook
 

Most of
the mineralized lenses are open laterally in one or more
directions, and the deposit itself is open to the east, west, and
at depth. Drilling for the first half of 2021 will include infill
holes within several of the upper lenses to confirm continuity of
grade and thickness of the inferred resource, step-out holes
targeting open extensions to these lenses, and wider step-out holes
testing for longer extensions and new lenses in areas adjacent to
the deposit. Some of the more prospective targets for the latter
include 1) the untested area below the Fortune Zone immediately
east of Ormaque, where shallow drillholes have intersected similar
vein styles to those found at Ormaque, and 2) gaps in previous
drilling between the Ormaque deposit and the Parallel deposit to
the west (Figure 4).
 

Lamaque Operations Background and Regional Strategy
 

The
Lamaque Operations is home to a number of large prolific gold
mines, including the historic Sigma and Lamaque mines that together
produced almost 10 million ounces of gold. Today, it hosts Proven
and Probable gold reserves of over 1 million ounces, Measured and
Indicated Mineral Resources of 1.8 million ounces of gold, and
Inferred Mineral Resources of 2.8 million ounces of gold at the
Triangle, Plug #4, Parallel, and Ormaque deposits.

 

Our
strategy in the region is designed to add a pipeline of organic
opportunities within and proximal to the Lamaque-Triangle Mine,
which can be exploited by leveraging existing infrastructure and
Eldorado’s strong operational, exploration and stakeholder
expertise. We aim to achieve this by increasing our footprint in
the Abitibi Greenstone Belt and through providing additional ore
sources to optimize the Sigma Mill, which has a permitted capacity
of 5,000 tonnes per day, far exceeding current usage of 2,200
tonnes per day.

 

 

 

 

Figure 1: Location map showing Lamaque
Operations.
 

 

 

 

 

Figure 2: Geological map showing the surface projection of
the Ormaque deposit and traces of drillholes incorporated in the
new resource.
 

 

 

 

 

Figure 3: Cross section 295675E through the center of the
Ormaque deposit showing the geometry of mineralized lenses used in
resource estimation, localization within a corridor defined by
steeply north-dipping shear zones and intrusive
contact.

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 4: East-West longitudinal section through the Ormaque
deposit looking north showing extent of mineralized lenses and
areas untested by previous drilling along strike and at depth.
Section represents a 70° north-dipping slice 300m wide through
the center of the deposit
 

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange
(TSX: ELD) and the New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).
 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations

Jeff
Wilhoit, Interim Head of Investor Relations

604 376
1548 or 1 888 353 8166 jeff.wilhoit@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604 616
2296 or 1 888 363 8166 louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com
 

 

 

 

Qualified
Persons
 

Mr. Sean
McKinley P.Geo., Eldorado Senior Geologist Resource Development and
Mr. Jacques Simoneau, P.Geo., Eldorado Exploration Manager Eastern
Canada are the qualified persons as defined by National Instrument
43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects ("NI 43-101")
for this press release. Mr Simoneau is responsible for, and has
verified and approved, the scientific and technical disclosure
contained in this press release related to geological data
collection and interpretation and QA/QC procedures. Mr McKinley is
responsible for, and has approved, the scientific and technical
disclosure contained in this press release related to resource
modelling. Eldorado operates its exploration programs according to
industry best practices and employs rigorous quality assurance and
quality control procedures. All results are based on half-core
samples of diamond drill core. Ormaque drill core samples were
prepared and analyzed at Bourlamaque Laboratories in Val
d’Or, Quebec. All Au assays are based on fire assay
analysis of a 30gm charge followed by an atomic absorption
finish. Samples with Au grades above 5.0 g/t were re-assayed
and completed with a gravimetric finish. 
 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the
statements made and information provided in this press release are
forward-looking statements or information within the meaning of the
United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and
applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, these forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information can be identified by the
use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected",
"budget", “continue”, “projected”,
"scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or
"believes" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and
phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results
"may", "could", "would", "might" or "will" be taken, occur or be
achieved.
 

Forward-looking
statements or information contained in this release include, but
are not limited to, statements or information with respect to: 2021
plans for drilling at the Ormaque Deposit and prospective targets;
development rates at the new decline at the Triangle Mine, forward
looking assumptions used relating to the resources estimates; our
ability to increase landholdings in the Abitibi Greenstone Belt;
our expectations regarding establishment of resources through our
continued exploration programs, the timing and quantity of annual
gold production; our strategy with respect to non-core assets;
mineral reserves and resources, our guidance and outlook, including
expected production and recoveries of gold, planned capital and
exploration expenditures; our expectation as to our future
financial and operating performance, expected metallurgical
recoveries, gold price outlook; and our strategy, plans and goals,
including our proposed exploration, development, construction,
permitting and operating plans and priorities, including timelines
and schedules.
 

Forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information by their nature are
based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results,
performance or achievements of the Company to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or
information. 
 

We have made
certain assumptions about the forward-looking statements and
information, including assumptions about: the completion and
results of our exploration programs,; mineral reserves and
resources and metallurgical recoveries, the geopolitical, economic,
permitting and legal climate that we operate in; the future price
of gold and other commodities; the global concentrate market;
exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses; production, the
impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on our
business and the ability to achieve our goals. In particular,
except where otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of
existing business operations on substantially the same basis as
exists at the time of this release.
 

Even though our
management believes that the assumptions made and the expectations
represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there
can be no assurance that the forward-looking statement or
information will prove to be accurate. Many assumptions may be
difficult to predict and are beyond our
control. 
 

Furthermore,
should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or other factors
materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect,
actual results may vary materially from those described in
forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: global
outbreaks of infectious diseases, including COVID-19; timing and
cost of construction and exploration, geopolitical and economic
climate (global and local), risks related to the updating of our
resource and reserve models and life of mine plans; mineral tenure
and permits; gold and other commodity price volatility; information
technology systems risks; continued softening of the global
concentrate market, recoveries of gold and other metals; results of
test work; revised guidance; risks regarding potential and
pending litigation and arbitration proceedings relating to
the Company’s, business, properties and operations; expected
impact on reserves and the carrying value; mining operational and
development risk; financing risks; foreign country operational
risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks and
liabilities including, regulatory environment and restrictions, and
environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies
between actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and
resources and metallurgical testing and recoveries; additional
funding requirements; currency fluctuations; community and
non-governmental organization actions; speculative nature of gold
exploration; dilution; share price volatility and the price of our
common shares; competition; loss of key employees; and defective
title to mineral claims or properties, as well as those risk
factors discussed in the sections titled “Forward-Looking
Statements” and "Risk factors in our business" in the
Company's most recent Annual Information Form & Form
40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on
SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

Forward-looking
statements and information is designed to help you understand
management’s current views of our near and longer term
prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no
assurance that forward-looking statements or information will prove
to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ
materially from those anticipated in such statements. 
Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. 
Except as required by law, we do not expect to update
forward-looking statements and information continually as
conditions change and you are referred to the full discussion of
the Company's business contained in the Company's reports filed
with the securities regulatory authorities in Canada and the
U.S.
 

Mineral resources that are not
mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
Inferred mineral resources are considered too speculative
geologically to have the economic considerations applied to them
that would enable them to be categorized as mineral
reserves.