EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS
RELEASE

 

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

 February
5, 2021

 

Eldorado Gold Signs Amended Investment Agreement

with
the Hellenic Republic

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) is pleased to announce its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Hellas Gold S.A. has entered into an amended Investment
Agreement (the “Agreement”) with the Hellenic Republic
to govern the further development, construction and operation of
the Skouries, Olympias and Stratoni/Mavres Petres mines and
facilities in northern Greece (collectively the “Kassandra
Mines”). The Agreement amends the 2004 Transfer Agreement
between Hellas Gold S.A. and the Hellenic Republic, and provides a
modernised legal and financial framework to allow for the
advancement of Eldorado’s investment in the Kassandra
Mines.

 

The
Agreement is mutually beneficial to Eldorado and the Hellenic
Republic. For Eldorado, it provides investor protection mechanisms
including a permitting framework similar to other large-scale
foreign investment agreements in Greece. For the Hellenic Republic,
it provides enhanced fiscal revenues, environmental benefits, and
community development opportunities.
 

The
Agreement includes an optimized Investment Plan for the Kassandra
Mines which will allow for:
 

●
Completion of
construction at Skouries and transition of the project into
production;1

●
Expansion of
Olympias to 650,000 tonnes per annum;2

●
Upgrades to the
port facilities at Stratoni to allow for bulk shipment of
concentrates;2

●
Further investment
in exploration at Mavres Petres-Stratoni; and

●
Continued study of
on-site gold processing methods.

 

The
Agreement will be formally submitted to the Greek Parliament for
ratification, with a vote expected to take place in an upcoming
parliamentary session. The Agreement takes effect once published in
the Greek Government Gazette, which follows parliamentary
ratification.

 

“Today
is a major milestone, marking a new beginning for the Kassandra
Mines and for Eldorado Gold in Greece,” said George Burns,
President and CEO. “This agreement is the culmination of
dedicated, determined efforts and reflects a true desire from both
parties to deliver a commercial framework that can realize the
potential of the Kassandra Mines for all stakeholders. Both
Olympias and Skouries have the potential to be tier-one assets
that, when combined with the rest of our portfolio, will be
transformational for Eldorado.

 

“We
now have a modernized investment agreement that will provide a
stable, commercial path for Eldorado in Greece, as well as a strong
precedent for future investment in the country once ratified by the
Greek Parliament. Together, we are building a positive legacy for
generations to come as we continue to commit to operating
responsibly and with care for local communities and the
environment.”

 

Key Benefits of the Agreement

 

●
Investor protection
mechanisms, similar to other large-scale foreign investment
agreements in Greece;

●
A permitting
framework allowing for a clear path to production and stable
operations;

●
Increased fiscal
revenues for all levels of government, including a 10% increase in
royalty rates for all contained metals3;

●
Enhanced
opportunities for local communities, including the creation of
approximately 3,000 jobs and an $80 million commitment to community
projects over the life of the mines; and

●
Reduced
environmental footprint through the use of best-available
techniques (BAT) at the EU level, as well as global best practices,
such as dry-stack tailings, improved water management systems and
other design and monitoring improvements.

_____________________________

1 Requires permit
approval for use of dry-stack tailings technology at
Skouries.

2
Requires EIA modification. 

3 The 2% royalty at
$1,300 gold would become a 2.2% royalty.

 

All dollar amounts are expressed in US dollars unless otherwise
noted. 

 

 

 

 

Next Steps at Skouries

 

The
Company is advancing several key pieces of technical work on the
Skouries project, including additional engineering and
feasibility-level updates to the capital cost estimate. An
application for dry-stack tailings was submitted to the Ministry of
Energy & Environment in late 2020 with approval expected once
the Ministry has completed its review. The Company is continuing to
evaluate financing options for Skouries. Once re-started, the
Company expects to complete construction in approximately 2.5
years.

 

About Skouries Project
 

Skouries
is a high-grade gold-copper porphyry project that is partially
constructed and currently in care and maintenance. Skouries is
expected to operate for approximately 23 years based on current
reserves, initially as an open pit and underground mine, followed
by underground mining only.

 

Highlights
of the project as outlined in the Technical Report for Skouries
dated January 1, 2018 include:

 

●
Proven and Probable
reserves of 3.8 million ounces of gold at 0.74 g/t Au and 1.7
billion pounds of copper at 0.49% Cu, support a 23 year mine life
at an average annual production of 140,000 ounces of gold and 67
million pounds of copper with production from both open-pit and
underground.

●
Estimated capital
cost of $689.2 million, including $87 million in contingency, to
fully develop both the open pit and Phase I of the Skouries
underground, generating an estimated after-tax project NPV $925
million at a 5% discount rate, an internal rate of return of 21.2%,
and a payback period of 3.4 years (at a gold price of $1,300/oz and
a copper price of $2.75/lb).

●
The project design
specifies a dramatically-reduced environmental footprint reflecting
some of the best-available control technology, and utilization of
filtered dry stack tailings.

 

A copy
of the Skouries Technical report can be found here, or on
SEDAR.

 

To take
a virtual tour of the Skouries site, please visit: https://vrify.com/explore/projects/45/sites/3147

 

About Olympias Mine
 

Olympias
is a gold-silver-lead-zinc mine that Eldorado refurbished and put
back into production at the end of 2017. Olympias produced over
58,000 ounces of gold in 2020. The Company’s current guidance
shows production increasing to between 65,000 and 70,000 ounces of
gold a year in 2023. Olympias has a mine life of 21 years based on
current reserves and outlined in the most-recent Technical Report
(dated December 31, 2017).

 

A copy
of the Olympias Technical report can be found here, or on
SEDAR.

 

To take
a virtual tour of the Olympias site, please visit: https://vrify.com/explore/projects/75/sites/3145

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:
ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations

Jeff
Wilhoit, Interim Head of Investor Relations

+ 1 604
376 1548 or +1 888 353 8166 jeff.wilhoit@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

+1 604
616 2296 or +1 888 363 8166 louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com
 

Dan
Gagnier, Gagnier Communications

+1 646
569-5897 dg@gagnierfc.com

 

 

 

 

Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: the formal ratification of the Agreement by Greek
Parliament and effectiveness of the Agreement, the benefits of the
Agreement, the completion of construction at Skouries, including
transition into production, the advancement of technical work at
Skouries, including the approval of dry-stack tailings, financing
and completion of construction, and the timing thereof, and
expected reserves, mine life, production, costs, NPV and design at
Skouries, the expansion at Olympias, the upgrade of port facilities
at Stratoni, further exploration at Mavres Petres-Stratoni, the
continued study of processing methods, and our expectations
regarding the timing and quantity annual gold production; our
expectation as to our future financial and operating performance,
including expectations around generating free cash flow; working
capital requirements; debt repayment obligations; use of proceeds
from financing activities; expected metallurgical recoveries and
improved concentrate grade and quality; gold price outlook and the
global concentrate market; risk factors affecting our business; our
strategy, plans and goals, including our proposed exploration,
development, construction, permitting and operating plans and
priorities and related timelines; and schedules and results of
litigation and arbitration proceedings. Forward-looking statements
and forward-looking information by their nature are based on
assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, market
uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about:
ratification and effectiveness of the Agreement, and the benefits
thereof, the ability to achieve the expected benefits of the
Agreement, the completion of advancement of technical work and
construction at Skouries, including securing financing, production
and cost guidance, and ability to move into production, and the
timing thereof, how the world-wide economic and social impact of
COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; timing and cost of construction and exploration; the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; the
global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated costs,
expenses and working capital requirements; production, mineral
reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries; the impact of
acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on our business;
and the ability to achieve our goals. In particular, except where
otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of existing
business operations on substantially the same basis as exists at
the time of this release.
 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the
ratification of the Agreement, including the timing thereof, the
ability to achieve the expected benefits of the Agreement, the
ability to complete advancement of technical work and construction
at Skouries, including securing financing, and meeting production
and cost guidance, and ability to move into production, and the
timing thereof, ability to meet production and cost guidance,
global outbreaks of infectious diseases, including COVID-19; timing
and cost of construction, and the associated benefits; recoveries
of gold and other metals; geopolitical and economic climate (global
and local), risks related to mineral tenure and permits; gold and
other commodity price volatility; information technology systems
risks; continued softening of the global concentrate market; risks
regarding potential and pending litigation and arbitration
proceedings relating to our business, properties and operations;
expected impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of
the reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; financing risks; foreign country
operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks
and liabilities including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production;
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and
recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative
nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility and
the price of our common shares; competition; loss of key employees;
and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well as
those risk factors discussed in the sections titled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our
business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the
detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion
is incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.
 

Except as otherwise noted, scientific and technical information
contained in this press release was reviewed and approved by Simon
Hille, FAusIMM and VP Technical Services for the Company, and a
"qualified person" under NI 43-101.