EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

 April
29, 2021

 

Eldorado Gold Receives Approval for Use of Dry Stack
Tailings

at Skouries

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) is pleased to announce that the Greek
Ministry of Energy and Environment has approved a modification to
the Kassandra Mines Environmental Impact Assessment
(“EIA”) to allow for the use of dry stack tailings
disposal at the Skouries project. Dry stack technology involves
filtering tailings to remove water prior to stacking and compacting
the dry material in a designated tailings area.

 

Using
dry stack tailings disposal provides several benefits to the
Skouries project:
 

●
Dry stacked
material is denser than conventional slurry tailings and can be
stacked and compacted, thus occupying less space and reducing the
environmental footprint of the facility by 50%.

 

●
The high solids
content of the dry-stack material, which has a consistency similar
to damp sand, significantly improves the tailings facility’s
safety and stability, particularly during extreme weather
events.

 

●
Water removed from
the tailings will be recycled, reducing the need to extract water
from local sources.

 

●
Allows for
continuous reclamation, making final reclamation at the end of mine
life faster and easier.

 

“Receipt
of this approval is a major milestone for the Skouries project and
the use of dry-stack technology results in a number of safety,
environmental and economic benefits,” said George Burns,
President and CEO. “Eldorado continues to be an industry
leader in dry stack tailings as we have deployed this technology at
the majority of our mines. Investment in dry stack at Skouries
demonstrates our commitments to using best available environmental
technologies at our mines and to ensuring the safety and protection
of people and the environment.

 

“This
approval is one of the key items required to restart construction
at Skouries. We continue to advance other work on the project,
including the completion of a feasibility-level update to the
capital cost estimate. Skouries is a world class asset and once in
production will add significant value for our investors, local
communities and the Greek State.”

 

About Skouries Project
 

The
Skouries project is one component of the Kassandra Mines, which
includes the nearby Olympias mine and the Stratoni/Mavres Petres
mine. On February 5, 2021, Eldorado Gold signed an Amended
Investment Agreement (the “Agreement”) with the
Hellenic Republic to govern the further development, construction
and operation of the Kassandra Mines and facilities in northern
Greece. The Agreement was approved and ratified by the Greek
Parliament on March 17, 2021.

 

Skouries
is a high-grade gold-copper porphyry project that is partially
constructed and currently on care and maintenance. Skouries is
expected to operate for approximately 23 years based on current
reserves, initially as an open pit and underground mine, followed
by underground mining only.

 

A copy
of the Skouries Technical report can be found here, or on
SEDAR.

 

To take
a virtual tour of the Skouries site, please visit: https://vrify.com/explore/projects/45/sites/3147

 

 

 

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:
ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).

 

Contacts
 

Investor Relations

Jeff
Wilhoit, Interim Head of Investor Relations

604.376.1548
or 1.888.353.8166 jeff.wilhoit@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.616.2296
or 1.888.363.8166 louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com
 

Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: the completion of workstreams and construction at
Skouries, including updates to capital cost estimates and securing
project financing, and the ratification of the Amended Investment
Agreement. the benefits of using dry stack tailings, the
advancement of technical work at Skouries, expected reserves, mine
life, production, costs, NPV and design at Skouries, and the
benefits thereof, our expectations regarding the timing and
quantity annual gold production; our expectation as to our future
financial and operating performance, including expectations around
generating free cash flow; working capital requirements; debt
repayment obligations; use of proceeds from financing activities;
expected metallurgical recoveries and concentrate grade and
quality; gold price outlook and the global concentrate market; risk
factors affecting our business; our strategy, plans and goals,
including our proposed exploration, development, construction,
permitting and operating plans and priorities and related
timelines; and schedules and results of litigation and arbitration
proceedings. Forward-looking statements and forward-looking
information by their nature are based on assumptions and involve
known and unknown risks, market uncertainties and other factors,
which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of
the Company to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about:
ratification and effectiveness of the Amended Investment Agreement,
and the benefits thereof and, the ability to achieve the expected
benefits, the completion of advancement of technical work and
construction at Skouries, including securing financing, production
and cost guidance, and ability to move into production, and the
timing thereof, how the world-wide economic and social impact of
COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; timing and cost of construction and exploration; the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; the
global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated costs,
expenses and working capital requirements; production, mineral
reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries; the impact of
acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on our business;
and the ability to achieve our goals. In particular, except where
otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of existing
business operations on substantially the same basis as exists at
the time of this release.
 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.
 

 

 

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the
ratification of the Amended Investment Agreement, including the
timing thereof, the ability to achieve the expected benefits of the
Agreement, the ability to complete advancement of technical work
and construction at Skouries, including securing financing, and
meeting production and cost guidance, and ability to move into
production, and the timing thereof, ability to meet production and
cost guidance, global outbreaks of infectious diseases, including
COVID-19; timing and cost of construction, and the associated
benefits; recoveries of gold and other metals; geopolitical and
economic climate (global and local), risks related to mineral
tenure and permits; gold and other commodity price volatility;
information technology systems risks; continued softening of the
global concentrate market; risks regarding potential and pending
litigation and arbitration proceedings relating to our business,
properties and operations; expected impact on reserves and the
carrying value; the updating of the reserve and resource models and
life of mine plans; mining operational and development risk;
financing risks; foreign country operational risks; risks of
sovereign investment; regulatory risks and liabilities including
environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies
between actual and estimated production; mineral reserves and
resources and metallurgical testing and recoveries; additional
funding requirements; currency fluctuations; community and
non-governmental organization actions; speculative nature of gold
exploration; dilution; share price volatility and the price of our
common shares; competition; loss of key employees; and defective
title to mineral claims or properties, as well as those risk
factors discussed in the sections titled “Forward-Looking
Statements” and "Risk factors in our business" in the
Company's most recent Annual Information Form & Form 40-F. The
reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk discussion
in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR and EDGAR
under our Company name, which discussion is incorporated by
reference in this release, for a fuller understanding of the risks
and uncertainties that affect the Company’s business and
operations.
 

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.
 

Except as otherwise noted, scientific and technical information
contained in this press release was reviewed and approved by Simon
Hille, FAusIMM and VP Technical Services for the Company, and a
"qualified person" under NI 43-101.