EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Blueprint

 Exhibit
99.1

 

NEWS RELEASE

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO December 17, 2018

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Share Consolidation

 

VANCOUVER,
Canada – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) announces that it is proceeding with a
5:1 consolidation of the common shares of the Company (“the
Consolidation”) with an effective date of December 27, 2018.
Notice has been provided to the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”), and Eldorado’s common shares are
expected to begin trading on the NYSE and the Toronto Stock
Exchange (“TSX”), on a consolidated basis, on or about
December 31, 2018.
 

At
Eldorado’s Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders, held
on June 21, 2018, the Company’s shareholders approved an
amendment to the Company’s restated articles of incorporation
granting authority to effect the Consolidation.
 

Following
the Consolidation, the number of outstanding common shares of the
Company will be reduced from approximately 794 million outstanding
common shares to approximately 159 million outstanding common
shares. Eldorado’s common shares will continue to trade on
the NYSE and the TSX under the existing ticker symbols. Following
the Consolidation, the new CUSIP number for the Company’s
common shares will be 284902509 and the new ISIN for the
Company’s common shares will be CA2849025093.
 

No
fractional common shares will be issued in connection with the
Consolidation; any fractional shares will be
cancelled.
 

Eldorado’s
transfer agent, Computershare Investor Services
(“Computershare”), will act as the exchange agent for
the Consolidation. On the
effective date of the Consolidation, Computershare will send
instructions (i.e. a Letter of Transmittal) to shareholders
who hold stock certificates regarding the exchange of old
certificates for new certificates, should they wish to do so. 
Shareholders who hold their shares in brokerage accounts or
“street name” are not required to take any action to
effect the exchange of their shares.
 
 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, Serbia,
and Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto
Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).
 

 
1

 

 

Contact
 

Investor Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018
or 1.888.353.8166

peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications and Government
Relations

604.601.6679
or 1.888.353.8166

louiseb@eldoradogold.com

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

Certain of the statements made herein may contain forward-looking
statements or information within the meaning of the United States
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable
Canadian securities laws. Often, but not always, forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information can be identified by the
use of words such as “plans”, “expects”,
“is expected”, “budget”,
“scheduled”, “estimates”,
“forecasts”, “intends”,
“anticipates”, or “believes” or the
negatives thereof or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results
“may”, “could”, “would”,
“might” or “will” be taken, occur or be
achieved. Forward-looking statements or information herein include,
but are not limited, to statements or information with respect to
the Company’s Share Consolidation.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information, including the
expected
number of common shares issued and outstanding following the Share
Consolidation; the anticipated effective date of the Share
Consolidation; and the date on which the common shares are expected
to start trading on the NYSE and the TSX on a consolidated
basis.
 

Although our management believes that the assumptions made and the
expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statements or information will prove to be accurate. Furthermore,
should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or other factors
materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect,
actual results may vary materially from those described in
forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: the ability to acquire shares through the NCIB; the
impact of the Company’s proposed share consolidation (if
completed); share price volatility; as well as those factors
discussed in the sections entitled “Forward-Looking
Statements” and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual
Information Form & Form 40-F dated March 29, 2018.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.
 

All
forward looking statements and information contained in this News
Release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
 

 
 

 
2