EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT

Blueprint

 

 

 

ELDORADO GOLD CORPORATION
 

FORM 51-102F3
 

MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT
 
 

Item 1.

Name
and Address of Company

 

Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado” or the
“Company”)

Suite
1188 – Bentall 5

550
Burrard Street

Vancouver, British
Columbia V6C 2B5
 

Item 2.

Date of Material Change

 

August
26, 2019
 

Item 3.

News Release

 

A news
release was disseminated via Global Newswire and filed on SEDAR on
August 26, 2019.
 

Item 4.

Summary of Material Change

 

On
August 26, 2019 the Company announced that it had filed a final
short form base shelf prospectus with the securities regulatory
authorities in each of the provinces of Canada. The Company has
also filed a corresponding shelf registration statement on Form
F-10 with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”) under the U.S.
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Multijurisdictional Disclosure System established between Canada
and the United States.

 

 
-1-

 

 

Item 5.

Full Description of Material Change

 

On
August 26, 2019 the Company announced that it has filed a final
short form base shelf prospectus with the securities regulatory
authorities in each of the provinces of Canada. The Company has
also filed a corresponding shelf registration statement on Form
F-10 with the SEC under the U.S.
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Multijurisdictional Disclosure System established between Canada
and the United States.
 

The
prospectus will allow Eldorado to offer up to US$750 million of
common shares, debt securities, convertible securities, warrants,
rights, subscription receipts, units or any combination thereof,
from time to time over the 25-month period. The specific terms of
any future offering will be established in a prospectus supplement
to the Shelf Prospectus, which supplement will be filed with the
applicable Canadian securities regulatory authorities and the
SEC.
 

The
shelf registration statement filed with the SEC has not yet become
effective. Until the registration statement becomes effective, no
securities may be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted in the
United States. This report shall not constitute an offer to sell or
a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of
these securities in any jurisdiction in which an offer,
solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or
qualifications under the securities laws of any such
jurisdiction.
 

A copy
of the prospectus can be found on SEDAR at www.sedar.com, and a
copy of the shelf registration statement can be found on EDGAR at
www.sec.gov, each under the Company’s profile.

 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
report are forward-looking statements or information within the
meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, these
forward-looking statements and forward-looking information can be
identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is
expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.
 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this report
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to the filing of the Prospectus and shelf registration
statement, filing of any future prospectus supplements, completing
any future offerings or sales of securities, and drawing on
capital. Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
by their nature are based on assumptions and involve known and
unknown risks, market uncertainties and other factors, which may
cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the
Company to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements or information.
 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; the
global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated costs and
expenses; production, mineral reserves and resources and
metallurgical recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions,
suspensions or delays on our business and the ability to achieve
our goals. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this report.
Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, additional
funding requirements; currency fluctuations; dilution; share price
volatility; as well as those risk factors discussed in the sections
titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors
in our business" in the Company's Prospectus, most recent Annual
Information Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to
carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our most recent
Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name,
which discussion is incorporated by reference in this report, for a
fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.
 

 
-2-

 

 

Item 6.

Reliance on 7.1(2) of National Instrument 51-102

 

Not
applicable.
 

Item 7.

Omitted Information

 

Not
applicable.
 

Item 8.

Executive Officer

 

Name of Executive
Officer:
Tim
Garvin

Executive Vice
President and General Counsel 

Telephone
number: 
(604) 601
6692

 

Item 9.

Date of Report

 

August
27, 2019

 

-3-