EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS
RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

 July
21, 2021

 

 

Eldorado Gold Acquires Shares of Probe Metals Inc.

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado” or “the Company)
announces that today it acquired 15,041,746 common shares (the
“Shares”) of 
Probe Metals Inc. (“Probe”) at a price
of $1.575 per share for an aggregate purchase price of
$23,690,749.95.

 

Prior
to such acquisition, Eldorado did not own any Shares of Probe and
following such acquisition, Eldorado owns 11.5% of the outstanding
Shares of Probe. The Shares were acquired pursuant to a private
transaction.

 

Eldorado
advises that the securities have been acquired for investments
purposes. Eldorado may, depending on the market and other
conditions, increase or decrease its beneficial ownership of
Probe’s securities, whether in the open market, by privately
negotiated agreements or otherwise, subject to a number of factors,
including general market conditions and other available investment
and business opportunities.

 

This
press release is issued pursuant to Multilateral Instrument 62-104,
which also requires an early warning report to be filed containing
additional information with respect to the foregoing matters. A
copy of the early warning report will be available on SEDAR under
Probe’s issuer profile at www.sedar.com and may be obtained
upon request from Eldorado by contacting Eldorado at the contact
information below. Eldorado is incorporated under the laws of
Canada and is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York
Stock Exchange. Probe has a head office at 56 Temperance Street,
Suite 1000, Toronto, Ontario, M5H 3V5.

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:
ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

Contact
 

Investor Relations
 

Lisa
Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757
2237 or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com
 

Media
 

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.616
2296 or 1.888.363.8166

louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com

 

 

 

 

Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved. Forward-looking statements
or information contained in this release include, but are not
limited to, statements or information with respect to any future
increase or decrease in Shares of Probe.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, market uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about: general
market conditions and other available investment and business
opportunities; how the world-wide economic and social impact of
COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; the geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate
that we operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities;
the global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated costs,
expenses and working capital requirements; production, mineral
reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries; the impact of
acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on our business;
and the ability to achieve our goals. . In particular, except where
otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of existing
business operations on substantially the same basis as exists at
the time of this release.

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: our
assumptions relating to general market conditions and other
available investment and business opportunities, global outbreaks
of infectious diseases, including COVID-19; recoveries of gold and
other metals; geopolitical and economic climate (global and local),
risks related to mineral tenure and permits; gold and other
commodity price volatility; information technology systems risks;
risks regarding potential and pending litigation and arbitration
proceedings relating to our business, properties and operations;
expected impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of
the reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; financing risks; foreign country
operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks
and liabilities including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production;
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and
recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative
nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility and
the price of our common shares; competition; loss of key employees;
and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well as
those risk factors discussed in the sections titled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our
business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the
detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion
is incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.