EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

NEWS
RELEASE

 

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO

October
27, 2021

Eldorado Gold Announces Closing of Tocantinzinho Sale

to G Mining Ventures

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado” or “the
Company”) announces that it has closed the previously
announced sale of the Tocantinzinho Project (“TZ”) to G
Mining Ventures Corp. (“GMIN”).

 

As part
of closing, Eldorado and GMIN have entered into an investor rights
agreement (“Investor Rights Agreement”), which grants
Eldorado certain rights for so long as it maintains 10% ownership
of GMIN common shares on an undiluted basis. The Investor Rights
Agreement includes:
 

●
A customary lockup
period until the earlier of (i) two years, and (ii) GMIN making a
positive construction decision on TZ.

 

●
The right for
Eldorado to participate in future equity offerings by GMIN in order
to maintain the greater of 19.9% of GMIN’s share capital and
Eldorado’s pro rata ownership interest prior to the
offering.

 

●
Additional
customary rights and restrictions for a transaction of this
nature.

 

“The
sale of TZ provides immediate value for Eldorado and also allows us
to retain meaningful exposure to future value creation through our
equity stake in GMIN,” said George Burns, Eldorado’s
President and Chief Executive Officer. “We believe the
combination of GMIN and the existing local Brazilian leadership
group is the right team to advance the asset responsibly. We look
forward to following and supporting their
success.”

 

Early Warning Disclosure

 

Prior
to the completion of the sale of TZ to GMIN, Eldorado did not own
any common shares of GMIN. Following such sale, Eldorado owns
46,926,372 common shares of GMIN, representing 19.9% of the issued
and outstanding common shares of GMIN, which were issued to
Eldorado as partial consideration for the sale of TZ. Eldorado was
also paid upfront consideration of US$20 million in cash and
deferred consideration of US$60 million in cash to be paid subject
to TZ commencing commercial production, payable on the first
anniversary of commercial production (“Deferred
Consideration”). GMIN has the option to defer 50% of the
Deferred Consideration at a cost of US$5 million, in which case
US$30 million is payable upon the first anniversary of the
commencement of commercial production and US$35 million is payable
upon the second anniversary of the commencement of commercial
production. The GMIN common shares issued to Eldorado were issued
at the deemed offer price of C$0.924 for an aggregate deemed value
of US$34.7 million.

 

Eldorado
advises that the securities have been acquired for investments
purposes. Eldorado may, depending on the market and other
conditions, increase or decrease its beneficial ownership of
GMIN’s securities, whether in the open market, by privately
negotiated agreements or otherwise, subject to a number of factors,
including general market conditions and other available investment
and business opportunities.

 

This
disclosure is provided pursuant to Multilateral Instrument 62-104,
which also requires an early warning report to be filed containing
additional information with respect to the foregoing matters. A
copy of the early warning report will be available on SEDAR under
GMIN’s issuer profile at www.sedar.com and may be obtained
upon request from Eldorado by contacting Eldorado at the contact
information below. GMIN’s head office is located at 7900 W,
Taschereau Blvd., Building D, Suite 210, Brossard, QC, J4X 1C2.
Eldorado’s head office is located at 1188 - 550 Burrard
Street, Bentall 5, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2B5.

 

 

 

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, and Romania. The
Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce, safe and
responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality assets, and
long-term partnerships with local communities. Eldorado's common
shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).
 

Contact
 

Investor Relations

Lisa
Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757
2237 or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com

 

Media

Louise
McMahon, Director Communications & Public Affairs

604.616
2296 or 1.888.363.8166

louise.mcmahon@eldoradogold.com

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: TZ achieving commercial production and receipt of any
Deferred Consideration, the ability to GMIN to advance TZ and to
build a mine, including cost and timing thereof, and future value
creation for Eldorado through the equity stake in GMIN.
Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, market uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about: the
ability of GMIN to advance TZ, including to achieve commercial
production, and the timing thereof; and the price of the GMIN
shares; how the world-wide economic and social impact of COVID-19
is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic;
timing and cost of construction and exploration; the future price
of gold and other commodities; the global concentrate market;
exchange rates; anticipated costs, expenses and working capital
requirements; the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions
or delays on our business; and the ability to achieve our goals. In
particular, except where otherwise stated, we have assumed a
continuation of existing business operations on substantially the
same basis as exists at the time of this release.

 

 

 

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: inability of
GMIN to advance TZ to commercial production; inability of GMIN to
pay the Deferred Consideration; the inability of GMIN to create
future value for Eldorado; global outbreaks of infectious diseases,
including COVID-19; timing and cost of construction, and the
associated benefits; recoveries of gold and other metals;
geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), risks related
to mineral tenure and permits; gold and other commodity price
volatility; information technology systems risks; continued
softening of the global concentrate market; risks regarding
potential and pending litigation and arbitration proceedings
relating to our business, properties and operations; expected
impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of the
reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; financing risks; foreign country
operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks
and liabilities including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production;
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and
recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative
nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility and
the price of our common shares; competition; loss of key employees;
and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well as
those risk factors discussed in the sections titled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our
business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the
detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion
is incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

 

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.