EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
 

 

NEWS RELEASE

 

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO

January 7, 2021

 

Eldorado Gold Achieves 2020 Production Guidance;

Appoints New Chair of the Board
 

VANCOUVER,
BC - Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado” or “the
Company”) today announced the Company’s fourth quarter
and full year 2020 preliminary production results.
 

Preliminary
2020 gold production increased 34% over 2019 to 528,874 ounces,
meeting the Company’s annual consolidated production guidance
of between 520,000 and 550,000 ounces. Preliminary gold production
for the fourth quarter of 2020 increased 16% to 138,220 ounces
compared to the fourth quarter of 2019.
 

Preliminary
2020 gold production at Lamaque exceeded guidance despite a
three-week shutdown in early Spring related to government-mandated
COVID-19 operating restrictions. The strong performance at Lamaque
was partially offset by lower labour availability impacting leach
pad flow rates at Kisladag during the second quarter. Kisladag
finished the year with strong fourth-quarter gold production,
driven by improving heap leach performance.
 

“Delivering
on our production guidance amid a year of unprecedented external
challenges is a testament to the dedication and resilience of our
people,” said George Burns, Eldorado President and Chief
Executive Officer. “Our unique portfolio of high-quality,
long-lived mines and projects will continue to position Eldorado
for sustained success in the years ahead.”

 

Table 1: 2020 Preliminary Production

 

 Production (oz)

Q4 2020

Q4 2019

 2020

2019

Kisladag

56,816

51,010

226,475

140,214

Efemcukuru

25,828

26,243

99,835

103,767

Olympias

11,408

12,617

58,423

46,750

Lamaque

44,168

29,085

144,141

113,9401

Total

138,220

118,955

528,874

395,331

1 Includes
pre-commercial production.

 

The
Company will report its full year 2020 Year End-Results at the end
of February.

 

Corporate
 

The
Company also announced today that Steve Reid has been appointed
Chair of the Board, replacing George Albino, who will remain on the
Eldorado Board as a Director. Steve Reid has served as a Director
on the Eldorado Board since May 2013. He has over 40 years of
experience in the mineral resource industry. He served as the
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for Goldcorp
Inc. from 2007 to September 2012. Before joining Goldcorp, Mr. Reid
spent 13 years at Placer Dome in numerous corporate, mine
management and operating roles.
 

 

 

 

 
 

“I am pleased to announce the appointment of Steve to Chair
of the Eldorado Board,” said Burns. “His work as a
Director over the last seven years has contributed significantly to
Eldorado’s success and we look forward to benefiting from his
leadership. I would like to thank George Albino for his counsel and
dedication as Chair and for his continued strong presence on the
Board as a Director.”
 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:
ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).

 

Contact:
 

Investor Relations
 

Jeff
Wilhoit, Interim Head of Investor Relations

604.376.1548
or 1.888.353.8166 jeff.wilhoit@eldoradogold.com
 

Media
 

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.616.2296
or 1.888.363.8166 louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com
 

Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements and
Information
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with
respect to: the duration, extent and other implications of COVID-19
and any restrictions and suspensions with respect to our
operations; our expectations regarding the timing and quantity
annual gold production; our strategy with respect to non-core
assets; expected benefits resulting from design improvements at
Kisladag; timing of construction and expected benefits resulting
from design improvements at Skouries; timing of drilling activities
at the Stratoni mine; our guidance and outlook, including expected
production, cost guidance and recoveries of gold, including higher
gold bearing solution volumes and increased heap leach recoveries
through increased leach time in conjunction with a high pressure
grinding roll and related upgrades at Kisladag; timing and cost of
the construction of an underground decline at the Triangle mine and
the associated benefits; expansion at Lamaque, Efemcukuru, Olympias
and Stratoni; the success of a column flotation system in improving
concentrate grade and quality and lowering transportation and
concentrate treatment charges at Efemcukuru; favourable economics
for our heap leaching plan and the ability to extend mine life at
our projects; planned capital and exploration expenditures,
including at Olympias, Lamaque and Stratoni and the timing thereof;
conversion of mineral resources to mineral reserves; the
qualification of common shares as flow-through shares for Canadian
tax purposes; the evaluation of alternative mechanized mining
technologies; our expectation as to our future financial and
operating performance, including expectations around generating
free cash flow; working capital requirements; debt repayment
obligations; use of proceeds from financing activities; expected
metallurgical recoveries and improved concentrate grade and
quality; gold price outlook and the global concentrate market;
redemption of senior secured notes; risk factors affecting our
business; our strategy, plans and goals, including our proposed
exploration, development, construction, permitting and operating
plans and priorities and related timelines; and schedules and
results of litigation and arbitration proceedings.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, market uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about: how the
world-wide economic and social impact of COVID-19 is managed and
the duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic; timing and cost
of construction, including in respect of an underground decline at
the Triangle mine and the associated benefits; benefits of the
improvements at Kisladag; the geopolitical, economic, permitting
and legal climate that we operate in; the future price of gold and
other commodities; the global concentrate market; exchange rates;
anticipated costs, expenses and working capital requirements;
production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical
recoveries; the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions
or delays on our business; and the ability to achieve our goals. .
In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have assumed a
continuation of existing business operations on substantially the
same basis as exists at the time of this release.

 

 

 

 
 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others: global
outbreaks of infectious diseases, including COVID-19; timing and
cost of construction, including in respect of an underground
decline at the Triangle mine and the associated benefits; results
of further testwork; recoveries of gold and other metals;
geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), risks related
to mineral tenure and permits; gold and other commodity price
volatility; information technology systems risks; continued
softening of the global concentrate market; risks regarding
potential and pending litigation and arbitration proceedings
relating to our business, properties and operations; expected
impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of the
reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; financing risks; foreign country
operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks
and liabilities including environmental regulatory restrictions and
liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production;
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and
recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative
nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility and
the price of our common shares; competition; loss of key employees;
and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well as
those risk factors discussed in the sections titled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our
business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form
& Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the
detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion
is incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is
designed to help you understand management’s current views of
our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions
change.