EX-99.1
2
newsrelease.htm
ELDORADO GOLD ANNOUNCES SENIOR MANAGEMENT CHANGES

 JW Filed by Filing Services Canada Inc. 403-717-3898

 

 

 
 

 NEWS
 RELEASE
 
 

 TSX:
 ELD NYSE: EGO
 March 12, 2018

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Senior Management
Changes

 

VANCOUVER, BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation,
(“Eldorado” or “the Company”) today announces several changes to its senior management team to support
the Company’s strategy of focusing on delivering production and earnings growth from its portfolio of high quality assets.

 

Fabiana Chubbs, Eldorado’s Chief Financial
Officer (“CFO”) since 2011, will leave the Company at the end of April 2018. Mrs. Chubbs will continue to serve as
CFO until her departure and will work during the coming weeks to ensure an orderly transition of her responsibilities. The Company
has commenced a search for her successor.

 

“I want to thank Fabi for her contributions
to Eldorado over the past decade,” said George Burns, Eldorado’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “She
has been instrumental in managing Eldorado’s finances in order to position us to deliver on the pipeline of projects in our
portfolio. We appreciate Fabi’s commitment to ensuring a smooth transition and wish her well in her new endeavors.”

 

Timothy Garvin has joined Eldorado as Executive
Vice President and General Counsel. Mr. Garvin has extensive experience as senior in-house legal counsel, having worked for a number
of large companies in the resource sector in a range of international jurisdictions. He will be responsible for overseeing the
legal function Company-wide and providing strategic legal advice to the business units, management and the Company’s Board
of Directors.

 

Andor Lips has joined the Company, as Vice
President, Government Relations Europe, and is based in Eldorado’s Amsterdam office. Mr. Lips brings over 20 years of experience
in mineral exploration, project development, mining finance and stakeholder engagement, most recently holding senior positions
with Lydian International Ltd., ING Bank N.V., and the Commodity Discovery Fund. He is responsible for providing comprehensive
advocacy to support the growth of Eldorado’s business interests in Europe.

 

After nearly 20 years with Eldorado, Dawn
Moss, Executive Vice President, Administration, retired from Eldorado’s management team at the end of February 2018.

 

Also departing the Company at the end of February
after more than 20 years was Eduardo Moura, who served as Vice President and General Manager of Greece for more than five years
and most recently as Vice President, Special Advisor to the President and CEO for the past four months.

 

George Burns concluded, “On behalf of
our employees and the Board of Directors, I would like to thank Dawn and Eduardo for their contributions, hard work and dedication
to the Company. We wish Dawn well in her retirement and wish Eduardo all the best as he moves forward to pursue new opportunities.
Finally, I am pleased to welcome Tim and Andor and look forward to their contributions to the leadership team.”

 
 
 

About Eldorado Gold

Eldorado is a leading intermediate gold
producer with mining, development and exploration operations in Turkey, Greece, Romania, Serbia, Canada and Brazil. The Company’s
success to date is based on a highly skilled and dedicated workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with the communities where it operates. Eldorado’s common shares trade on the Toronto
Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).

 

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and Information

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
“continue”, “projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends",
"anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and phrases or statements
that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or "will"
be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to the Company’s changes to its senior management team including statements or information with
respect to: our expectation as to future financial and operating performance, including future cash flow, ; and our strategy, plans
and goals, and related timelines.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or information.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or other
factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the following: 
geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), mineral tenure and permits; gold and other metal price volatility; mining
operations and development; foreign country operations; sovereign investment; regulatory environment and restrictions, including
environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and
resources and metallurgical testing and recoveries; the sale of our Chinese assets on the Company's operations; the acquisition
of Integra Gold Corp.; additional funding requirements; currency fluctuations; litigation and arbitration risks; climate change;
community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative nature of gold exploration; dilution; share price volatility;
competition; loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral claims or property, as well as those factors discussed in the
sections entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk factors in our business" in the Company's most
recent Annual Information Form and Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our most
recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name, for a fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties
that affect the Company's business and operations.

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our control.

 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or information
will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except as required
by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking statements and information continually as conditions change and you are referred
to the full discussion of the Company's business contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities regulatory authorities
in Canada and the U.S.

 

 

Contacts

 
 Investor Relations
 Peter Lekich
 Manager, Investor Relations
 604.607.6698 or 1.888.363.8166
 peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 
 Media
 Louise Burgess
 Director, Communications and Government Relations
 604.601.6679 or 1.888.363.8166
 louiseb@eldoradogold.com