EX-99.1
2
newsrelease.htm
ELDORADO GOLD ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

 JA Filed by Filing Services Canada Inc. 403-717-3898

 

 
 

 NEWS
 RELEASE
 
 

 TSX:
 ELD NYSE: EGO
 July 11, 2018

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Appointment of
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 

VANCOUVER, BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation
(“Eldorado” or “the Company”) today announces the appointment of Philip Yee as Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer. This appointment further strengthens Eldorado’s leadership team.

 

Philip Yee will join Eldorado in September
2018. Phil has extensive experience as a senior financial executive, having worked for a variety of organizations in the gold mining
sector, including most recently as EVP and CFO at Kirkland Lake Gold since 2016, and SVP and CFO with Lake Shore Gold from 2013
to 2016. Phil will be responsible for overseeing Eldorado’s financial strategy, planning and analysis, accounting and financial
reporting, as well as its tax and treasury functions. He will also be responsible for leading the Company’s ongoing financing
initiatives.

 

“I am delighted to welcome Phil on behalf
of the Board of Directors and the rest of the Eldorado Gold team,” said George Burns, Eldorado’s President and Chief
Executive Officer. “Phil brings a wealth of experience to our leadership team and he understands the strategic needs required
to deliver on our plan moving forward. I look forward to working alongside Phil to further unlock the value we have in our business
as we focus on our goal to re-establish our annual gold production of 600,000 ounces by 2021.”

 

About Eldorado Gold

Eldorado is a gold and base metals producer
with mining, development and exploration operations in Turkey, Greece, Romania, Canada and Brazil. The Company has a highly
skilled and dedicated workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships
with local communities. Eldorado’s common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE: EGO).

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and Information

 

Certain of the statements made and
information provided in this press release are forward-looking statements or information within the meaning of the United States
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, these forward-looking statements
and forward-looking information can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", “goals”, "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”, “projected”, "scheduled", "estimates",
"forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or variations
of such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would",
"might" or "will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or information contained in this release
include, but are not limited to, statements or information with respect to: changes to our senior management team, including statements
or information with respect to our expectation as to future financial and operating performance, including expected production
and our strategy, plans, goals and related timelines and schedules.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking
information by their nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which
may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance
or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or information. 

 

We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information, including assumptions about the geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate
that we operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses; production,
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on
our business and the ability to achieve our goals. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation
of existing business operations on substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this release. 

 
 
 

 

Even though our management believes
that the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are
beyond our control. 

 

Furthermore, should one or more of
the risks, uncertainties or other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary
materially from those described in forward-looking statements or information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include,
among others, the following: geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), risks related to mineral tenure and permits;
gold and other commodity price volatility; recoveries of gold and other metals; results of test work; revised guidance; risks regarding
potential and pending litigation and arbitration proceedings relating to the Company’s, business, properties and operations;
expected impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of the reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; foreign country operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks and liabilities
including, regulatory environment and restrictions, and environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies between
actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and recoveries; risks related to the
impact of the sale of our Chinese assets and the acquisition and integration of Integra on the Company’s operations; additional
funding requirements; currency fluctuations; community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative nature of gold exploration;
dilution; share price volatility; competition; loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well
as those risk factors discussed in the sections titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our business"
in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name for a fuller understanding of the risks
and uncertainties that affect the Company’s business and operations.

 

Forward-looking statements and information
is designed to help you understand management’s current views of our near and longer term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or information will prove to be accurate, as actual
results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, you should not place
undue reliance on the forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except as required by law, we do not expect to
update forward-looking statements and information continually as conditions change and you are referred to the full discussion
of the Company's business contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities regulatory authorities in Canada and the
U.S.

 

Contact

Investor Relations

Peter Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018
or 1.888.353.8166

peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com

Media

Louise Burgess, Director Communications and
Government Relations

604.601.6679 or 1.888.363.8166

louiseb@eldoradogold.com