EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

ego_ex991

 

 

NEWS RELEASE

 

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO

April 14, 2020

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Restart of Lamaque Operations

 

VANCOUVER,
BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado” or
“the Company”) announces the restart of operations at
Lamaque as a result of the Quebec government’s confirmation
that mines in the Province are allowed to resume
operations.

 

Effective
April 15, 2020, the Company will begin to ramp up Lamaque. The
Company has safety protocols in place to address COVID-19 at all
its sites, including Lamaque, such as temperature screening,
compliance with additional hygiene measures and task observation to
ensure that all work is performed respecting physical distancing
and the use of appropriate personal protective equipment. The
Company also has isolation procedures in place should an employee
fall ill while at work. All personnel have been trained in these
updated protocols.

 

Operations
at Lamaque were moved to care and maintenance on March
23rd, 2020
to comply with the Quebec provincial government-mandated
restrictions to address the COVID-19 situation in the
province.

 

George
Burns, President and CEO said, “We are pleased to resume
operations at Lamaque. Keeping our people safe is our priority each
and every day. With the safety measures we have put in place at all
our sites, we are confident that we can adapt our business and
continue to create long term value for our
stakeholders.”

 

Global Preventative Measures and Operational Protocols

 

■
Video on
Temperature Checks at Lamaque:

https://youtu.be/3isXXY2gjA4

 

■
Further detail on
global preventative measures and operational protocols put in
place:

 
https://www.eldoradogold.com/responsibility/health-and-safety/Global-COVID-19-Response/default.aspx

 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado
is a gold and base metals producer with mining, development and
exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated workforce,
safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with local communities.
Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:
ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and
Information

 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", “continue”,
“projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or
variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or
"will" be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

Forward-looking statements or
information contained in this release include, but are not limited
to, statements or information with respect to: the
resumption of our operations at Lamaque,and the effect that any
such resumption will have on our operations and our financial and
operational results; the ability of the Company to continue with
any operations at Lamaque or our other operations, or to restart or
ramp-up these operations efficiently or economically, or at all,
the impact of COVID-19 on our workforce, suppliers and other
essential resources and what effect those impacts, if they occur,
would have on our business, our planned capital and exploration
expenditures; our expectation as to our future financial and
operating performance, gold price outlook and the global
concentrate market; and our strategy, plans and goals, including
our proposed exploration, development, construction, permitting and
operating plans and priorities and related timelines and
schedules.

 

 

 

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information.

 

We have made certain assumptions about the forward-looking
statements and information, including assumptions about how the
world-wide economic and social impact of COVID-19 is managed and
the duration and extent of the COVID 19 pandemic, the tonnage of
ore to be mined and processed; ore grades and recoveries; mineral
reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries, the
geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate that we
operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities;
exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses; and actual
production. In particular, except where otherwise stated, we have
assumed a continuation of existing business operations on
substantially the same basis as exists at the time of this
release.

 

Even though our management believes that the assumptions made and
the expectations represented by such statements or information are
reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many
assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our
control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: the duration and effects of COVID-19, and any other
pandemics on our operations and workforce, and the effects on
global economies and society; geopolitical and economic climate
(global and local), mineral tenure and permits; gold and other
commodity price volatility; recoveries of gold and other metals;
results of test work; revised guidance; mining operational and
development risk; discrepancies between actual and estimated
production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical
testing and recoveries; additional funding requirements; currency
fluctuations; speculative nature of gold exploration; competition;
loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral claims or
properties, as well as those risk factors discussed in the sections
titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors
in our business" in the Company's most recent Annual Information
Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review
the detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information
Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.

 

Forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.

 

Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have
demonstrated economic viability. With respect to “indicated
mineral resource” and “inferred mineral
resource”, there is a great amount of uncertainty as to their
existence and a great uncertainty as to their economic and legal
feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of a
“measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral
resource” or “inferred mineral resource” will
ever be upgraded to a higher category.

 

Except as otherwise noted, scientific and technical information
contained in this press release was reviewed and approved by Paul
Skayman, FAusIMM, Special Advisor to the Chief Operating Officer
for the Company, and a "qualified person" under NI
43-101.

 

Contact
 

Investor Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018
or 1.888.353.8166

peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications and Government
Relations

604.601.6679
or 1.888.363.8166

louise.burgess@eldoradogold.com