EX-99.1
2
newsrelease.htm
ELDORADO GOLD PROVIDES UPDATE ON GREECE

 

 

 

 

 NEWS
 RELEASE
 
 

 TSX:
 ELD NYSE: EGO
 August 3, 2017

 

Eldorado
Gold Provides Update on Greece

 

VANCOUVER
- BC
– Eldorado Gold (“Eldorado” or the “Company”) today
provides an update on Greece.

 

Today, the Greek Ministry of Energy and Environment
issued a press release stating their intention to have arbitration underway by the end of the month. This release also stated that
all permits outstanding for Olympias are underway, while the permits for Skouries remain unissued.

 

George Burns commented, “While the press
release did not result in any additional clarity regarding the details of the intended arbitration by the Greek government, the
Ministry stated that this is the best path forward in resolving all outstanding issues with the Company’s projects. To be
clear, we have not yet received formal notice of arbitration and permits applied for remain unissued. We continue to evaluate all
capital spending and development timelines at our projects in Greece. At this time, commissioning at Olympias and reduced
development works at Skouries are continuing.”

 

About
Eldorado Gold

 

Eldorado is a leading intermediate gold
producer with mining, development and exploration operations in Turkey, Greece, Romania, Serbia, Canada and Brazil. The Company’s
success to date is based on a highly skilled and dedicated workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality
assets, and long-term partnerships with the communities where it operates. Eldorado’s common shares trade on the Toronto
Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: EGO).

 

 

Certain of the statements made and information
provided in this press release are forward-looking statements or information within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, but not always, forward-looking statements and forward-looking
information can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
"continue"", "projected", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "projected",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and
phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might"
or "will" be taken, occur or be achieved. Such forward-looking statements or information include, but are not limited
to, statements or information with respect to the Statement.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking
information by their nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which
may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance
or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or information. 

 

We have made certain assumptions about the
forward-looking statements and information, including assumptions about the geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate
that we operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses; production,
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on
our business and the ability to achieve our goals.

 

Even though our management believes that
the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are
beyond our control.

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks,
uncertainties or other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially
from those described in forward-looking statements or information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among
others, the following: geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), risks related to mineral tenure and permits; gold
and other metal price volatility; mining operational and development risk; foreign country operational risks; risks of sovereign
investment; regulatory

 1
 
 

environment and restrictions, including
environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies between actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and
resources and metallurgical recoveries; risks related to impact of the sale of our Chinese assets on the Company’s operations;
the ability to acquire the shares that it does not already own in Integra Gold Corporation; additional funding requirements; currency
fluctuations; litigation risks; community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative nature of gold exploration; dilution;
share price volatility; competition; loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral claims or property, as well as those
factors discussed in the sections entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our business"
in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name, for a fuller understanding of the
risks and uncertainties that affect the Company’s business and operations.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
statements or information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated
in such statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements or information contained
herein. Except as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking statements and information continually as conditions
change and you are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business contained in the Company's reports filed with the
securities regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.

 

Contacts

Investor Relations

Krista Muhr, Vice President Investor Relations
& Corporate Communications

604.551.3250
or 1.888.363.8166 kristam@eldoradogold.com

Media

Louise Burgess, Director Communications &
Government Relations

604.601.6679 or 1.888.363.8166 louiseb@eldoradogold.com

 

 2