EX-99.1
2
tm2614848d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

Eldorado Gold
2025 Modern Slavery Report

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Introduction

 

This Modern Slavery
Report (the “Report”) has been prepared by Eldorado Gold Corporation (“Eldorado Gold” or “Eldorado”)
to meet the requirements of Canada’s Fighting Against Forced Labour and Child Labour in Supply Chains Act 2023 (the “Act”).
This joint report under section 11 of the Act covers Eldorado Gold and its subsidiary, Eldorado Gold (Québec) Inc. (“Eldorado
Gold Québec”), which we have determined are reporting entities. As Eldorado Gold is the ultimate parent company with global
supply chains under its consolidated financial oversight, this Report also includes references to various non-reporting entity subsidiaries,
particularly our main operating subsidiary in Greece (Hellas Gold Single Member S.A. (“Hellas Gold”)) and in Türkiye
(Tüprag Metal Madencilik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS (“Tüprag”)).

 

This Report forms
part of our annual reporting suite. All reports, including our Sustainability Reports, are available on our website at www.eldoradogold.com.
This Report covers Eldorado Gold’s financial year ended December 31, 2025 (the “Reporting Period”) unless otherwise
stated. This Report does not include information on Foran Mining Corporation (“Foran”) as Foran was not a wholly owned subsidiary
during the Reporting Period.

 

At Eldorado Gold,
we are committed to respecting human rights. We proactively work to avoid causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts, including
modern slavery, and to prevent and mitigate any human rights impacts that are linked to our operations or supply chains. This Report
discusses the policies, procedures, and practices we have in place and are developing to safeguard against modern slavery within our
operations and supply chain.

 

Our
Structure, Operations, and Supply Chain

 

Organizational
Structure and Operations

 

Eldorado Gold is
a Canadian mid-tier gold mining company, with shares trading on the Toronto (TSX: ELD) and New York (NYSE: EGO) stock exchanges. We produced
488,268 ounces of gold in 2025.

 

We are committed
to responsible mining as a foundation of our business, and this commitment is encapsulated in our values of collaboration, courage, integrity,
drive, and agility.

 

Our global operations
include assets in Canada, Türkiye, and Greece. Our activities involve all facets of mining, including exploration, development,
production, reclamation, and rehabilitation. Our company is headquartered in Vancouver, Canada. As of December 31, 2025, we had
a workforce of approximately 8,000 employees and contractors worldwide. The majority of our employees and management are nationals of
the countries in which our operations and offices are located.

 

We have four operating
sites:

 

(i)Lamaque
 Complex (“Lamaque”) - located in the eastern Abitibi-Témiscamingue
 region of Québec, Canada, which includes the active Triangle Mine (Upper and Lower),
 the Ormaque Deposit, the Parallel Deposit, the Plug #4 Deposit, and the Sigma mill. Lamaque
 produces gold and has a workforce of 892;

(ii)Olympias
 - located in the Halkidiki Peninsula, Greece which produces gold, silver, lead, and zinc.
 Olympias has a workforce of 1,112;

(iii)Kişladağ
 - located in Uşak Province, Türkiye which produces gold. Kişladağ
 has a workforce of 1,562; and

(iv)Efemçukuru
 - located in İzmir Province, Türkiye which produces gold. Efemçukuru and
 has a workforce of 899.

 

We also have a
copper-gold development project that is at an advanced stage, Skouries, located in the Halkidiki Peninsula in northern Greece. Skouries
has a workforce of 2,375 as of December 31, 2025. Skouries is part of our Kassandra Mines Complex, which also includes Olympias
and Mavres Petres-Stratoni mine (which is under care and maintenance). All our operating sites and the Skouries project are 100% owned
by Eldorado.

 

Other growth projects
include Perama Hill, a fully owned gold-silver project in Greece. On October 30, 2025, we closed the sale of the Certej project,
in Romania, in which we held an 80.5% interest.

 

 2 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 

 

In April 2026,
Eldorado Gold announced the completion of the acquisition of the outstanding shares of Foran through a court-approved plan of arrangement
under the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia). As noted above, the acquisition of Foran was announced subsequent to the
end of the Reporting Period.

 

For full description
of each site, please see the Company’s Annual Information Form FYE 2025 and our year end 2025 Management’s Discussion
and Analysis (“MD&A”), available on our website, SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov/edgar.
In this Report, we refer to our collective operations and development projects as our sites.

 

Supply Chain

 

We rely on a diverse
supply chain to support our business, providing services, goods, and materials required at the different phases of our sites. At Eldorado
Gold, our sites are supported by approximately 4,100 direct suppliers across our operations and our Skouries development project.

 

Our procurement
spend at our operational sites in 2025 was approximately USD $1,350M, and our main spend categories are included in the figure below:

 

Eldorado Total
Procurement Spend by Category (2025)

 

 
 Category
 Spend (percentage of total)
 
 Major
 services1
 56%
 
 Consumables
 16%
 
 Maintenance, repair, operational supplies, small services, and other
 17%
 
 Equipment, parts, and services
 11%
 

 

In Canada, 99%
of our spend is allotted to Canadian suppliers, while 1% is spent on suppliers outside of Canada, primarily in the United States. In
Greece, 86% of our spend is allotted to Greek suppliers while, 14% is spent on suppliers outside of Greece. In Türkiye, 89% of our
spend is allocated to Turkish suppliers and 11% is spent on suppliers outside of Türkiye.

 

Our
Policies and Governance Processes

 

Our Board of Directors
is responsible for overseeing corporate governance and monitors the effectiveness of our risk management processes. The Board’s
Sustainability Committee oversees our policies, programs, and practices relating to sustainability topics, including labour and human
rights. The Sustainability Committee receives quarterly consolidated reports with information from all sites and periodically visits
our sites to obtain first-hand validation. Accountability for social, environmental, and health and safety performance, including regarding
human rights, rests with our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and our President. Our Executive Vice President & Chief Operating
Officer provides oversight for occupational health and safety and sustainability at the corporate level. Our Vice President, Health,
Safety and Sustainability develops and implements our strategic direction while enhancing governance practices to promote accountability
and transparency. In addition, our Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer provides oversight for both the global
human resources function and the global procurement function. The Regional HR Directors maintain a dotted reporting line to the Vice
President, Human Resources while our Senior Director, Global Supply Chain & Procurement oversees the global procurement operations.

 

 

1 “Major Services”
means services of USD $250K and above (annual spend).

 

 3 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 

Governance Policies

 

Our key governance
policies and procedures continue to remain in effect with no material updates or revision in the last year. Our key governance policies
and procedures direct our practices, including our approach to human rights and modern slavery. Relevant corporate policies include our:

 

●Code
 of Ethics and Business Conduct (the “Code”) - The Code applies to employees
 and contractors working for Eldorado and our subsidiaries. It describes our expectations
 for acting ethically, including the responsibility to report suspected violations. The Code
 includes Whistleblower Procedures so that any stakeholder can confidentially and anonymously
 report any concerns, including concerns relating to human rights.

●Respectful
 Workplace Policy - We have a zero-tolerance approach to any form of harassment, discrimination,
 or workplace violence. Our Respectful Workplace Policy applies to all employees of Eldorado
 and our subsidiaries.

●Human
 Rights Policy - Informed by the International Bill of Rights, the International Labour
 Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the United
 Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the Voluntary Principles on
 Security and Human Rights, amongst others, our Human Rights Policy aligns our labour practices
 and health and safety practices with our responsibility to respect human rights. Our Human
 Rights Policy specifically prohibits child and forced labour in our operations and supply
 chains.

●Supplier
 Code of Conduct (“Supplier Code”) - We expect all suppliers to meet the minimum
 standards provided in the Supplier Code. This includes requiring suppliers to act ethically
 and to comply with laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they and we operate.
 The Supplier Code also establishes that suppliers are expected to adopt robust human rights
 and fair labour practices and are expected to adhere to our Human Rights Policy.

●Social
 Performance Policy: Our Social Performance Policy outlines our commitments to assessing
 and managing social impacts, engaging with affected communities, preserving cultural heritage,
 supporting equitable access to opportunities, and providing accessible grievance mechanisms.
 It is aligned with international sustainability and human rights frameworks and applies to
 all employees and contractors.

 

At Eldorado, directors,
officers, and the country general managers, Vice-Presidents or Executive Vice-Presidents who are responsible for overseeing employees
in foreign jurisdictions, are tasked with ensuring that employees in all jurisdictions understand and comply with the Code, and all other
applicable company policies.

 

Sustainability
Integrated Management System

 

Our Sustainability
Integrated Management System (“SIMS”) provides mandatory minimum performance standards that apply globally to all our sites.
Our SIMS covers occupational health and safety, social performance, environmental performance, and security as well as general topics,
such as contractor management and procurement. The SIMS was developed in alignment with internationally recognized industry standards,
including the World Gold Council’s (“WGC”) Responsible Gold Mining Principles (“RGMPs”), the Mining Association
of Canada’s (“MAC”) Towards Sustainable Mining standards (“TSM”), the International Cyanide Management
Code, and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.

 

Our SIMS requires
our operations and all contractors to align with the TSM Prevention of Child and Forced Labour Verification Protocol, and with the International
Labour Organization conventions on forced and child labour and modern slavery.

 

Our SIMS is subject
to cyclical reviews to ensure it incorporates changes to international frameworks and is fit for business. Accordingly, SIMS has an integrated
verification program that sees an internal group of subject matter experts assess compliance with the standards every three to five years,
and an external third-party verification on the requirements of MAC’s TSM and WGC’s RGMPs.

 

 4 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 

In 2025, we completed
an integrated SIMS Compliance Verification at Lamaque, which included external verification against the MACTSM protocols. The site achieved
AAA scores across all applicable protocols, and as a result, it was awarded the TSM Gold Leadership Award, the highest level of recognition
granted by the Mining Association of Canada. This verification process also identified opportunities for continuous improvement, supporting
the ongoing strengthening of our governance and due diligence systems across our operations. Verified TSM results are publicly available
through the Mining Association of Canada website.

 

Identifying
Modern Slavery Risks

 

Identifying
Modern Slavery Risks within our Operations

 

Our operations
are located in Canada, Türkiye, and Greece. We continue to closely monitor the Global Slavery Index (GSI) in these jurisdictions.
According to the 2023 Global Slavery Index, Canada is ranked low in terms of risks of modern slavery, Greece is ranked at low to medium
risk. We recognize that, in spite of these rankings, modern slavery does exist in these jurisdictions. Türkiye ranks fifth in the
world in terms of modern slavery risks.2 According to https://www.walkfree.org/, these risks are associated with the
large presence of refugees and migrants in the country, particularly from Syria, as well as ongoing discrimination against minority groups
(including refugees).3 Data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Operational Data Portal indicates
that approximately 2.87 million Syrians are registered with the Government of Türkiye, based on official data provided by the Government
of Türkiye as at March 2026.4 The risk of forced labour is highest in agriculture, domestic service, garments, textiles,
and construction industries.

 

Studies indicate
that Syrian refugees at heightened risk of modern slavery are predominantly located in southeast Türkiye, in the provinces bordering
northern Syria.5 Our operations are based in western Türkiye, where we believe the risks of modern slavery are lower.

 

Subsequent to the
end of the Reporting Period, following the initial military strikes in Iran on March 1, 2026, we have been monitoring escalating
geopolitical tensions across the region for potential indirect impacts on our operations, labour conditions and supply-chain risks in
Türkiye and Greece. At this time, we have not identified any material increase in forced labour or child labour risks within our
operations or supply chains; however, we continue to monitor developments and will update our risk assessments and mitigation measures
as appropriate.

 

Regardless of the
jurisdiction, we employ robust human resource and procurement procedures to ensure that we and our contractors do not employ forced or
child labour within our operations. These are discussed in the Measures within our Business Operations section of this report.
Therefore, we believe that the overall risk that our operations may cause or contribute to modern slavery with respect to our workforce
is low.

 

Identifying
Modern Slavery Risks within our Supply Chain

 

We recognize that
there is a risk that we unknowingly contribute or are linked to modern slavery impacts in our supply chain. The Australian Council of
Superannuation Investors lists sector-specific product and service categories that are at higher risk of modern slavery. These include
construction, cleaning, security, maintenance, contract labour, logistics/transport, and materials such as IT hardware.6 The
United States Department of Labor (USDOL) also identifies top sectors globally at risk for child and forced labour. In 2024, these included:
agriculture, manufacturing, and mining/quarrying.7 The USDOL also specifically identifies top sectors at risk of forced and
child labour in select countries, including Türkiye. For 2024, in Türkiye high risk sectors included agricultural products,
cotton, footwear, furniture, and garments. Drawing upon such sources, we have identified that the risk of modern slavery is higher in
our procurement of food and services, including construction, contract labour, cleaning, and maintenance.

 

 

2
     The 2023 Global Slavery Index - https://www.walkfree.org/global-slavery-index/map/

3
     Global Slavery Index / Country Study - Modern slavery in Türkiye
- https://www.walkfree.org/global-slavery-index/country-studies/turkiye/

4
     United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Operational Data
Portal, Syria Regional Refugee Response - https://data.unhcr.org/en/situations/syria

5
     Danish Refugee Council. 2021. Syrian Refugees’ Perceptions of
the (Formal) Labour Market in Southeast Turkey. Available at: https://reliefweb.int/report/turkey/syrian-refugees-perceptions-formal-labour-market-southeast-turkey

6
     Australian Council of Superannuation Investors. 2019. Modern Slavery
Risks, Rights and Responsibilities: A Guide for Companies and Investors.

7
     US Department of Labor. 2024. 2024 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor
or Forced Labor. Available at: https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ilab/reports/child-labor/list-of-goods

 

 5 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 

We recognize that
the risk of modern slavery also increases in countries with a higher prevalence of or vulnerability to modern slavery. As the majority
of our procurement spend is contracted to suppliers located within the countries where we operate, we have determined that the risks
of us contributing or being linked to modern slavery are highest in Türkiye.

 

In 2025, Eldorado
developed a Third-Party Risk Management (TPRM) framework to strengthen the Company’s responsible sourcing practices. This included
creating the Responsible Sourcing Policy, approved in November, and a TPRM Procedure that was piloted at Efemçukuru in Türkiye
before being rolled out to all sites and offices subsequent to the Reporting Period in 2026.

 

The new TPRM framework
reinforces compliance with leading international due-diligence standards, including the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights,
relevant OECD guidelines, and the EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive. It introduces mandatory, risk-based due diligence
for all suppliers, incorporating questionnaires, sanctions screening, and documented risk assessments. Zero-tolerance issues, such as
sanctions violations, forced or child labour, and bribery, trigger immediate escalation and can result in pausing or terminating supplier
engagement.

 

Managing
Modern Slavery Risks and Supply Chain Due Diligence

 

Measures within
our Business Operations

 

Regulatory Compliance

 

We follow the relevant
laws in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our sites and our offices undertake specific measures to ensure that there are no instances
of child or forced labour within our operations.

 

Our corporate offices
are located in Canada and are subject to Canadian and provincial labour laws. At Lamaque, we comply with the employment laws of Canada
and Québec, which protect all our employees and contractors at our Canadian operation. Canada and Québec have enacted labour
laws that protect all workers across all sectors, including informal sectors.

 

At our Greek operations,
Olympias and the Skouries development project, our human resources teams collect and verify relevant personal information of all job
candidates, ensuring against the use of child or forced labour. All contractors working on-site are required to submit the relevant personal
data of their employees for verification prior to the initial site access and on a monthly basis thereafter. No workers under the age
of 18 are allowed on site, in accordance with Greek mining regulations. These requirements also apply to the construction contractors
working at our Skouries development project.

 

Our two Türkiye
operations also follow all applicable laws, including labour laws. No workers under the age of 18 are allowed on our sites. Any contractors
working on site must submit relevant documentation for all of their workers prior to entering a site. Our human resource’s function
is responsible for tracking this information to ensure against the use of forced or child labour.

 

Eldorado seeks
to comply with international labour standards and to protect the labour rights of its employees and contractors. Approximately 53% of
our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2025.

 

Our compliance
with local labour regulations is assessed as part of third-party Human Rights Assessments (“HRAs”). In 2024, we successfully
concluded negotiations and reached a mutually beneficial three-year collective bargaining agreement with the union workforce at Olympias.
Additionally, Tuprag has successfully concluded an updated and mutually beneficial collective bargaining agreement, signed as of January 1,
2026, which will remain valid in Türkiye until December 31, 2027.

 

Compensation levels
for employees are determined at the country level by local human resource teams, with some high-level oversight from Corporate on annual
budget approvals and periodic gender pay equity assessments.

 

 6 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 

Human Rights

 

Our Human Rights
Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct continue to apply across all operations, contractors, and suppliers, setting clear expectations on
labour rights and prohibiting practices associated with modern slavery.

 

In 2025, we completed
independent Human Rights and Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Assessments across all operating sites, part of our internal
management system requirements on a three-year cycle. These assessments reviewed potential human rights risks, including labour-related
risks such as forced labour and child labour.

 

The assessors found
no evidence of modern slavery at any of our sites and no indication that our operations or contractor workforce were engaged in practices
resulting in material negative human rights impacts. The assessments helped us identify where potential human rights risks could exist
in our operations, which in turn allowed us to implement appropriate controls and actions to address and mitigate those risks.

 

Training

 

All our employees
receive some form of human rights training. At Lamaque, human rights topics are included in induction training, which all employees and
on-site contractors receive, and all our Lamaque desktop employees also complete the annual Code of Ethics and Business Conduct training.
At Olympias, we developed a two-day training course on human resources and sustainability that aligns with our SIMS and with Greek legislation.
The course specifically includes the topics of human rights and child labour. We have begun rolling out this training to all employees
and permanent contractors. At our Turkish sites, our employees and contractors receive compulsory training on human rights that includes
reference to forced and child labour.

 

At the corporate
level, we partner with a third-party provider to develop our policy-related training. The Ethics and Code of Conduct training was launched
in 2025 and deployed through our internal SAP learning management system. By early 2026, the training had been completed by all desktop
employees.

 

Furthermore, in
2025 we launched mandatory training on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking for all executives, senior leaders, management, site and
country managers, as well as all members of the procurement, accounts payable, human resources and legal teams globally. The training
also included exploration teams working on the ground, particularly in Canada, Türkiye, and Greece. Completion reached 100% in early
2026. The objective of the training was to raise awareness and equip participants with the knowledge and skills needed to identify, prevent
and address risks of human trafficking within our operations and throughout our supply chain.

 

Lastly, security
personnel across Canada, Türkiye, and Greece also received recurring training on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human
Rights.

 

Supply Chain
Due Diligence

 

Our SIMS requires
all our contractors and suppliers to comply with MAC TSM’s Prevention of Child and Forced Labour Verification Protocol and establishes
requirements for us to perform contractor and supplier due diligence and to monitor contractors and suppliers to identify risks related
to child labour, forced labour, modern slavery, remuneration practices, and international sanctions.

 

To operationalize
these SIMS requirements, we developed our Supplier Code in 2023. We communicate the Supplier Code to all suppliers and require that they
acknowledge and commit to compliance with our Supplier Code. Additionally, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct apply to anyone working
for Eldorado.

 

As noted above,
we developed a TPRM framework, along with a Responsible Sourcing Policy and supporting procedure, which were piloted in 2025 at the Efemçukuru
mine. Governance has been strengthened through defined escalation pathways, specialized oversight for complex matters, and a Due Diligence
Committee responsible for reviewing sensitive or high-risk cases. The program also incorporates continuous-improvement mechanisms, including
regular reviews of risk thresholds, screening tools, questionnaires, grievance processes, and overall system performance, to ensure sustained
compliance and responsible sourcing across our supplier base.

 

Our Greek subsidiary
Hellas Gold is developing the Skouries development project with investment from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(“EBRD”). The EBRD requires us to have specific supplier management processes in place. In response, our Greece country team
developed a due diligence process that is aligned with EBRD requirements. This process is very similar to the company-wide process we
have been developing. Any supplier that is deemed high risk under both Eldorado’s screening process and Hellas Gold’s screening
process, or just under Hellas Gold’s screening process, will be subject to Hellas Gold’s due diligence procedures.

 

 7 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 

Addressing
Modern Slavery Risks and Remediation Measures

 

Eldorado’s
Board of Directors is responsible for understanding and overseeing the principal risks associated with our business and regularly monitoring
the systems in place to manage those risks effectively. Further, Eldorado’s Audit Committee is a Board level committee
responsible for ensuring that we have appropriate procedures for the receipt, retention, and treatment of confidential, anonymous submissions
and complaints about any violation to or circumstances that may violate our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, including concerns about
human rights or modern slavery. The Code includes details of our Whistleblower Reporting Line.

 

As part of our
whistleblower procedures, employees, directors, officers, or anyone conducting business on our behalf (including contractors, consultants,
suppliers, or agents) are free to bring ethics-related complaints to the attention of their supervisor or manager. They can also file
a confidential and, if desired, anonymous report through our third-party whistleblower reporting agency, EthicsPoint, by telephone or
online at www.eldorado.ethicspoint.com. Parties can also contact any member of the Legal and Compliance team, Eldorado’s
Executive Vice-President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer or the Chair of the Audit Committee. Complaints can be submitted,
through interoffice mail, a sealed envelope addressed to the Executive Vice-President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer.

 

Our Supplier Code
includes reporting mechanisms that are aligned with our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Whistleblower Procedures. Specifically,
if a supplier becomes aware of a potential violation of the Supplier Code or a related Eldorado policy, they must bring the matter to
the attention of the person in our company that they are doing business with. Concerns and potential violations can also be anonymously
reported by telephone or online through EthicsPoint, or by email at compliance@eldoradogold.com. We have implemented employee
grievance mechanisms across all of our sites.

 

Both Eldorado’s
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Supplier Code explicitly state that we will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who, in good
faith, reports a concern or participates in an investigation.

 

Our Community Response
System in SIMS, which is aligned with MAC TSM’s Indigenous and Community Relations Protocol, also establishes requirements for
sites to develop and maintain a community feedback mechanism, to receive, manage, and respond to community grievances, comments, concerns,
and requests. Community members can raise concerns regarding modern slavery through either these community grievance mechanisms, or our
whistleblower channels.

 

All concerns and
grievances received through our Community Response System, employee grievance mechanisms, and our whistleblower channels are investigated.
During 2025, no concerns received through our confidential feedback and whistleblower channels resulted in any findings related to modern
slavery. Since there were no known impacts, we did not implement any measures to remediate instances of forced or child labour, or the
loss of income of the most vulnerable families that results from any measure taken to eliminate the use of forced labour or child labour.

 

Assessing
Our Effectiveness

 

Our Board’s
Sustainability Committee reviews and monitors the implementation of our Human Rights Policy, and our programs, practices, and disclosures
relating to human rights. The Committee receives quarterly reports related to sustainability performance of our operations and oversees
the implementation of our sustainability management system.

 

We conduct third-party
HRAs across our operations to better understand our actual and potential human rights impacts and to ensure we are effectively assessing
and monitoring the measures in place to respect human rights. The first cycle of these assessments was completed between 2021 and 2022.
In 2025, we completed the next round of independent assessments at all operating sites, as required every three years under SIMS. The
2025 assessments identified no findings related to forced labour, child labour, or other labour-related human rights violations.

 

 8 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 

We monitor our
performance against the action plans developed through the HRAs. As a MAC member, we comply with the TSM Prevention of Child and Forced
Labour Verification Protocol, and all of our operations strive, at minimum, to meet the Level A criteria of the Communities and Indigenous
Relations Protocol, which is embedded within our SIMS. This protocol includes requirements related to Community of Interest Response
Mechanisms, including the adequacy of community feedback systems.

 

In 2025, an external
verification was conducted at Lamaque, confirming alignment with the Prevention of Child and Forced Labour Protocol and achieving Level
AAA under the Communities and Indigenous Relations Protocol.

 

The third-party
verification process under SIMS also assesses our alignment with the RGMPs, and the results are publicly available on our website. Additionally,
as part of our annual Conflict-Free Gold Standard assurance process, Eldorado again confirmed that our gold production does not contribute
to or benefit from human rights abuses, including forced or child labour.

 

We continue to
assess and develop our supplier due diligence process. As this work progresses, we will continue to identify possible new measures to
track the effectiveness of our efforts to address the risks of forced or child labour within our supply chain. The Due Diligence Committee
that oversees our supplier due diligence process will continue to assess high-risk suppliers and work towards implementing a standard
TPRM process across all sites in 2026.

 

Approval
and Cautionary Notes

 

This report is
for the entity Eldorado Gold and its subsidiary subject to the Act, Eldorado Gold (Québec) Inc. (together, the “Reporting
Entities”). This report has been approved by Eldorado Gold’s Board of Directors pursuant to subparagraph 11(4)(b)(ii) of
the Act. In accordance with the requirements of the Act, and in particular section 11 thereof, I attest that I have reviewed the
information contained in the report for the entity or entities listed above. Based on my knowledge, and having exercised reasonable diligence, I
attest that the information in the report is true, accurate and complete in all material respects for the purposes of the Act, for the
reporting year listed above.

 

I make the above
attestation in my capacity as a director of the Board of Directors of Eldorado Gold, and not in my personal capacity, for and on behalf
of the Board of Directors of Eldorado Gold.

 

I have the authority
to bind Eldorado Gold.

 
 
 /s/ George Burns
 
 

George Burns 

Director and CEO
of Eldorado Gold Corporation 

Date: May 07,
2026

 

Cautionary
Notes Regarding Forward-Looking Information and Risks

 

Forward-Looking
Information and Risks

 

Certain of the
statements made and information provided in this Modern Slavery Report are forward-looking statements or forward-looking information
within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information can be identified by the use of words such as “anticipates”,
 “believes”, “budgets”, “committed”, “continue”, “confident”, “estimates”,
 “expects”, “focus”, “forecasts”, “foresees”, “forward”, “future”,
 “goal”, “guidance”, “intends”, “opportunity”, “outlook”, “plans”,
 “potential”, “projects”, “prospective”, “schedule”, “strategy”, “strives”,
 “targets”, “underway”, "working" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events, or results “can”, “could”, “likely”, “may”,
 “might”, “will”, or “would” be taken, occur, or be achieved.

 

 9 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 

Forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information contained in this Modern Slavery Report include, but are not limited to, statements or information
with respect to: our strategy, and expected development of policies and procedures; construction and development of the Skouries Project;
potential development of Perama Hill and generally our strategy, plans and goals; implementation of the TPRM system across all sites
in 2026; the Company’s sustainability practices, its compliance with SIMS, local labour laws and human rights assessments; our
overall assumption of low modern slavery with respect to our workforce and our belief that modern slavery risks are lower in Western
Türkiye; The Company’s assessment on the potential indirect impacts of the Iran war on its operations, labour conditions and
supply chains in Türkiye; the Company’s strategy and process around the screening of major suppliers; development of a due
diligence process aligned with EBRD requirements; plans to enhance whistleblower procedures and to identify, measure, track and address
the risks of forced or child labour within our supply chain.

 

Forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information by their nature are based on a number of assumptions that management considers reasonable.
However, if such assumptions prove to be inaccurate, then actual results, activities, performance, or achievements may be materially
different from those described in the forward-looking statements or information. These include assumptions concerning: timing, cost and
results of our construction and development activities, improvements, and exploration; the future price of gold, copper, and other commodities;
receipt of all required permits on the timelines we expect; the global concentrate market; exchange rates; anticipated values, costs,
expenses and working capital requirements; the successful integration of the assets and operations from the Arrangement, and the realization
of benefits derived therefrom; our ability to continue accessing our project funding and remain in compliance with all covenants and
contractual commitments related thereto; availability of labour resources, including for construction, development and improvements activities;
production and metallurgical recoveries; Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources; our ability to effectively use invested capital and
unlock potential expansion opportunities across the portfolio; our ability to address the negative impacts of climate change and adverse
weather; consistency of agglomeration and our ability to optimize it in the future; the cost of, and extent to which we use, essential
consumables (including fuel, explosives, cement, and cyanide); the impact and effectiveness of productivity initiatives; the time and
cost necessary of shipping for important or critical items for construction, development and improvements activities or for anticipated
overhauls of equipment; expected by-product grades; the use, and impact or effectiveness, of growth capital; the impact of acquisitions,
dispositions, suspensions or delays on our business; the sustaining capital required for various projects; and the geopolitical, economic,
permitting and legal climate that we operate in.

 

In
addition, except where otherwise stated, Eldorado has assumed a continuation of existing business operations on substantially the same
basis as exists at the time of this Modern Slavery Report. Even though we believe that the assumptions and expectations represented by
such statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statement or information will prove
to be accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are beyond our control.

 

 10 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report
 
 

 

 Furthermore, should
one or more of the risks, uncertainties and other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results
may vary materially from those described in the forward-looking statements or information. Generally, these risks, uncertainties, and
other factors include, among others: commodity price risk; development risks at Skouries, McIlvenna Bay, and other construction and development
projects including the ability of key suppliers to meet key contractual commitments in terms of schedules, amount of product delivered,
cost, or quality and our ability to construct key infrastructure within the required timelines, and unexpected inclement weather and
climate events that may delay timelines; risks relating to our operations in foreign jurisdictions; risks related to production and processing;
risks related to our improvement projects; integration risks relating to the Arrangement, including the possibility that anticipated
benefits from the Arrangement are not realized on the timeline expected or at all; delays and risks relating to surface construction,
commissioning activities, ramp-up, and commercial production at McIlvenna Bay; our ability to secure supplies of power and water at a
reasonable cost; prices of commodities and consumables; our reliance on significant amounts of critical equipment; our reliance on infrastructure,
commodities and consumables; inflation risk; community relations and social license; risks related to title and surface rights; environmental,
health and safety matters; our ability to completely understand geotechnical structures, geotechnical and hydrogeological conditions
or failures, and our ability to mitigate such conditions or failures at a reasonable cost, or at all; regulatory requirements as they
relate to mine plan approvals; compliance with the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (Canada); waste disposal; mineral
tenure; permits, licences and other authorizations; non-governmental organizations; reputational issues; climate change; change of control;
actions of activist shareholders; estimation of Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources; risks related to replacement of mineral reserves;
regulatory reviews and different standards used to prepare and report Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources; risks relating to any pandemic,
epidemic, endemic, or similar public health threats; regulated substances; acquisitions, including general integration risks; dispositions;
co-ownership of our properties; investment portfolio; volatility, volume fluctuations, and dilution risk in respect of our shares; competition;
reliance on a limited number of smelters and off-takers; information and operational technology systems; liquidity and financing risks;
indebtedness (including current and future operating restrictions, implications of a change of control, ability to meet debt service
obligations, the implications of defaulting on obligations and changes in credit ratings); total cash costs per ounce and AISC (particularly
in relation to the market price of gold and the Company’s profitability); currency risk; interest rate risk; credit risk; tax matters;
financial reporting (including relating to the carrying value of our assets and changes in reporting standards); the global economic
environment; labour risks (availability of labour resources, including for construction, development and improvements activities, and
their productivity; and risks relating to employee/union relations, employee misconduct, key personnel, skilled workforce, expatriates,
and contractors); turnover and attrition rates of labour, and related impacts thereto; default on obligations; current and future operating
restrictions; reclamation and long-term obligations; credit ratings; change in reporting standards; the unavailability of insurance;
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, applicable securities laws, and stock exchange rules; risks relating to environmental, sustainability, and governance
practices and performance; corruption, bribery, and sanctions; employee misconduct; litigation and contracts; conflicts of interest;
compliance with privacy legislation; dividends; cyber security risk; and international conflict and other geopolitical tensions and events,
including war, tariffs and other trade barriers; and those risk factors discussed in our most recent Annual Information Form &
Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our MD&A and our most recent Annual Information
Form & Form 40-F filed on SEDAR+ and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion is incorporated by reference in this
Modern Slavery Report, for a fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect our business and operations.

 

The reader is directed
to carefully review the detailed risk discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form and other regulatory filings filed on
SEDAR+ under our Company name for a fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the Company’s business and
operations. The inclusion of forward-looking statements and information is designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near- and longer-term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other purposes.
There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events
could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking
statements or information contained herein. Except as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking statements and information
continually as conditions change and you are referred to the full discussion of the Company’s business contained in the Company’s
reports filed with the securities regulatory authorities in Canada and the United States.

 

 11 | 2025 Modern Slavery Report