EX-99.1
2
newsrelease.htm
ELDORADO GOLD FILES THREE TECHNICAL REPORTS FOR LAMAQUE, KISLADAG AND SKOURIES

 JA Filed by Filing Services Canada Inc. 403-717-3898

 

 

 
 

 NEWS
 RELEASE
 
 

 TSX:
 ELD NYSE: EGO
 March 29, 2018

 

 

 Eldorado Gold Files Three Technical Reports for Lamaque,
Kisladag and Skouries

 

VANCOUVER, BC – Eldorado Gold Corporation
("Eldorado" or the "Company") today filed three separate technical reports for its Lamaque, Kisladag and Skouries
projects (the “Technical Reports”). Further to the Company’s news release dated March 21, 2018 (Eldorado Gold
Reports Results of Technical Studies), these Technical Reports have been prepared pursuant to Canadian Securities Administrators'
National Instrument 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects, and may be found on the Company’s website (www.eldoradogold.com)
or under the Company's SEDAR profile (www.sedar.com).

 

Technical Report for the Lamaque Project,
Quebec, Canada (the “Lamaque Technical Report”)

The Lamaque Technical Report with an effective
date of March 21, 2018, was prepared by the following Qualified Persons as defined by NI 43-101: Stephen Juras, P. Geo., Colm Keogh,
P. Eng., Jacques Simoneau, P. Geo., Francois Chabot, P. Eng., and Marianne Utiger, P.Eng.

 

Technical Report for the Kisladag Milling
Project, Turkey (the “Kisladag Technical Report”)

The Kisladag Technical Report with an effective
date of March 16, 2018, was prepared by the following Qualified Persons as defined by NI 43-101: Stephen Juras, P. Geo., John Nilsson,
P. Eng., Paul Skayman, FAusIMM, and David Sutherland, P.Eng.

 

Technical Report for the Skouries Project,
Greece (the “Skouries Technical Report”)

The Skouries Technical Report with an effective
date of January 1, 2018, was prepared by the following Qualified Persons as defined by NI 43-101: Stephen Juras, P. Geo., Paul
Skayman, FAusIMM, Rick Alexander, P. Eng., Colm Keogh, P. Eng., and John Nilsson, P. Eng.

 

About Eldorado Gold

 

Eldorado is a gold and base metals producer
with mining, development and exploration operations in Turkey, Greece, Romania, Serbia, Canada and Brazil. The Company has a highly
skilled and dedicated workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships
with local communities. Eldorado’s common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE: EGO).

 

Cautionary Note about Forward-looking Statements and Information

 

Certain of the statements made and information
provided in this press release are forward-looking statements or information within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often, these forward-looking statements and forward-looking
information can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
“continue”, “projected”, "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends",
"anticipates", or "believes" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and phrases or statements that
certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or "will"
be taken, occur or be achieved.

 

 
 
 

 

Forward-looking statements or information
contained in this release include, but are not limited to, statements or information with respect to: our guidance and outlook,
including expected production, projected cash cost, planned capital and exploration expenditures for 2018; our expectation as to
our future financial and operating performance, including future cash flow, estimated cash costs, expected metallurgical recoveries,
gold price outlook; and our strategy, plans and goals, including our proposed exploration, development, construction, permitting
and operating plans and priorities, related timelines and schedules and results of litigation and arbitration proceedings.

 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking
information by their nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which
may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance
or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or information. 

 

We have made certain assumptions about the
forward-looking statements and information, including assumptions about the geopolitical, economic, permitting and legal climate
that we operate in; the future price of gold and other commodities; exchange rates; anticipated costs and expenses; production,
mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical recoveries, the impact of acquisitions, dispositions, suspensions or delays on
our business and the ability to achieve our goals. 

 

Even though our management believes that
the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statement or information will prove to be accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are
beyond our control. 

 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks,
uncertainties or other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially
from those described in forward-looking statements or information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among
others, the following: geopolitical and economic climate (global and local), risks related to mineral tenure and permits; gold
and other commodity price volatility; recoveries of gold and other metals; results of test work; revised guidance; risks regarding
potential and pending litigation and arbitration proceedings relating to the Company’s business, properties and operations;
expected impact on reserves and the carrying value; the updating of the reserve and resource models and life of mine plans; mining
operational and development risk; foreign country operational risks; risks of sovereign investment; regulatory risks and liabilities
including, regulatory environment and restrictions, and environmental regulatory restrictions and liability; discrepancies between
actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and resources and metallurgical testing and recoveries; risks related to the
impact of the sale of our Chinese assets and the acquisition and integration of Integra on the Company’s operations;; additional
funding requirements; currency fluctuations; community and non-governmental organization actions; speculative nature of gold exploration;
dilution; share price volatility; competition; loss of key employees; and defective title to mineral claims or properties, as well
as those risk factors discussed in the sections titled “Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk factors in our business"
in the Company's most recent Annual Information Form & Form 40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on SEDAR under our Company name, which discussion is incorporated by
reference in this release, for a fuller understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the Company’s business and
operations.

 

Forward-looking statements and information
is designed to help you understand management’s current views of our near and longer term prospects, and it may not be appropriate
for other purposes.

 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
statements or information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated
in such statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements or information contained
herein. Except as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking statements and information continually as conditions
change and you are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business contained in the Company's reports filed with the
securities regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.

 

Financial Information and condensed statements
contained herein or attached hereto may not be suitable for readers that are unfamiliar with the Company and is not a substitute
for reading the Company’s financial statements and related MD&A available on our website and on SEDAR under our Company
name. The reader is directed to carefully review such document for a full understanding of the financial information summarized
herein.

 

Except as otherwise noted, scientific and
technical information contained in this press release was reviewed and approved by Paul Skayman, FAusIMM, Chief Operating Officer
for Eldorado Gold Corporation, and a "qualified person" under NI 43-101I.

 

Mineral resources which are not mineral
reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. With respect to “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred
mineral resource”, there is a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and a great uncertainty as to their economic
and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of a “measured mineral resource”, “indicated
mineral resource” or “inferred mineral resource” will ever be upgraded to a higher category.

 

Cautionary Note to US Investors Concerning
Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Resources

 

The terms "mineral resource",
"measured mineral resource", "indicated mineral resource", "inferred mineral resource" used herein
are Canadian mining terms used in accordance with NI 43-101 under the guidelines set out in the Canadian Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy and Petroleum (the "CIM") Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, adopted by the CIM
Council, as may be amended from time to time. These definitions differ from the definitions in the United States Securities
& Exchange Commission ("SEC") Industry Guide 7. In the United States, a mineral reserve is defined as a part of
a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time the mineral reserve determination is
made.

 

 
 
 

 

While the terms "mineral resource",
"measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource", and "inferred mineral resource" are recognized
and required by Canadian regulations, they are not defined terms under standards in the United States and normally are
not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. As such, information contained herein
concerning descriptions of mineralization and resources under Canadian standards may not be comparable to similar information made
public by U.S. companies in SEC filings.

 

Accordingly, information herein containing
descriptions of our mineral deposits may not be comparable to similar information made public by US companies subject to the reporting
and disclosure requirements under US federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.

 

Contacts

 

 
 Investor Relations
 Peter Lekich
 Manager, Investor Relations
 604.687.4018 or 1.888.353.8166
 peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 
 Media
 Louise Burgess
 Director, Communications and Government Relations
 604.687.4018 or 1.888.353.8166
 louiseb@eldoradogold.com