EX-99.1
2
ego_ex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Blueprint

 Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS
RELEASE

TSX:
ELD NYSE: EGO May 22, 2019

 

Eldorado Gold Announces Pricing of US$300 Million Senior Secured
Second Lien Notes Offering
 

Vancouver,
British Columbia - Eldorado Gold Corporation ( "Eldorado", the
"Company" or "We") is pleased to announce that it has priced its
offering of US$300 million aggregate principal amount of 9.5%
senior secured second lien notes due 2024 (the "Notes"), which will
be offered at 98% of par. The settlement date for the issue of the
Notes is expected to be on or about June 5, 2019.
 

Eldorado
intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes,
together with term loan proceeds incurred under its new Senior
Secured Credit Facility and cash on hand, to redeem its outstanding
US$600 million 6.125% Senior Notes due December 2020, and to pay
fees and expenses in connection with the foregoing.
 

The
Notes have not been registered under the United States Securities
Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the securities
laws of any state and may not be offered or sold absent
registration under the Securities Act or an applicable exemption
from the registration requirements thereof. The Notes will be
offered and sold only to persons reasonably believed to be
qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A under
the Securities Act and to certain “non-U.S. persons”
outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the
Securities Act and in each case pursuant to available prospectus
exemptions from securities laws of British Columbia. The Notes will
be offered and sold outside of the US (including in Canada) on a
private placement basis pursuant to certain exemptions from
applicable securities laws.
 

This
news release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation
of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities
in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would
be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the
securities laws of any such jurisdiction or an exemption
therefrom. This press release is being issued pursuant to and
in accordance with Rule 135c under the Securities Act.
 

About
Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado is a gold
and base metals producer with mining, development and exploration
operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece, Romania, Serbia, and
Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and dedicated
workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio of
high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado's common shares trade on the Toronto
Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
EGO).

 

Contacts
 

Investor
Relations

Peter
Lekich, Manager Investor Relations

604.687.4018 or
1.888.353.8166 peter.lekich@eldoradogold.com
 

Media

Louise
Burgess, Director Communications & Government
Relations

604.687.4018 or
1.888.353.8166 louiseb@eldoradogold.com
 

 

 

 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 

This news release contains forward looking statements and forward
looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian and
U.S. securities laws. Often, but not always, forward-looking
statements and forward-looking information can be identified by the
use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
"scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or
"believes" or the negatives thereof or variations of such words and
phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results
"may", "could", "would", "might" or "will" be taken, occur or be
achieved. Forward-looking statements or information herein include,
but are not limited to the pricing of the Notes, and the 
completion of the transactions in connection with the offering of
Notes and the new Senior Secured Credit Facility.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information and even though our
management believes that the assumptions made and the expectations
represented by such statements or information are reasonable, there
can be no assurance that the forward-looking statement or
information will prove to be accurate. Furthermore, should one or
more of the risks, uncertainties or other factors materialize, or
should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may
vary materially from those described in forward-looking statements
or information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors
include, among others, the following: our ability to satisfy the
conditions of closing the offering, including obtaining any
required consents and documents and the need to negotiate and
execute the indenture and related documents; the need for continued
cooperation of the initial purchasers; the need to successfully
market the offering; gold price volatility, discrepancies between
actual and estimated production, mineral reserves and resources and
metallurgical recoveries; mining operational and development risk;
litigation risks; regulatory restrictions, including environmental
regulatory restrictions and liability; risks of sovereign
investment; currency fluctuations; speculative nature of gold
exploration; global economic climate; dilution; share price
volatility; competition; loss of key employees; additional funding
requirements; and defective title to mineral claims or property, as
well as those factors discussed in the sections entitled
“Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk
Factors” in the Company's Annual Information Form & Form
40-F dated March 29, 2019.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company's business
contained in the Company's reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.