EX-99.1
2
eldor_exh991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

eldor_exh991

Exhibit 99.1

 

NEWS RELEASE

 

 

TSX: ELD NYSE: EGO

 

October 15, 2021

 

 
 

Eldorado Gold Announces New Senior Secured Credit
Facility

 

VANCOUVER, BC – Eldorado Gold
Corporation (“Eldorado”, the “Company”
or “We”) is pleased to announce that the Company and
its syndicate of lenders have executed an amended and restated
senior secured credit facility (the “fourth amended and
restated credit agreement” or “Fourth
ARCA”).
 

The Fourth ARCA consists of a US$250 million revolving senior
secured credit facility with an option to increase the available
credit by US$100 million through an accordion feature, as well as a
letter of credit facility. The Fourth ARCA amends and replaces the
May 2019 US$450 million senior secured credit facility (the
“2019 Facility”), which consisted of a US$200 million
non-revolving term loan and a US$250 million revolving credit
facility. Under the Fourth ARCA the revolving credit facility bears
interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 2.125% to 3.25%, dependent on a
net leverage ratio pricing grid. To be consistent with the 6.250%
senior unsecured notes due 2029 (the “Notes”) issued by
Eldorado on August 26, 2021, the Fourth ARCA allows for greater
flexibility for a broad range of financing alternatives for the
development of the Kassandra assets.
 

The net proceeds from the sale of Notes were used in part to redeem
the outstanding 9.5% senior secured second lien notes due 2024 and
to repay outstanding amounts under the 2019 Facility.
 

“We continue to strengthen our balance sheet and maintain a
solid financial position,” said George Burns, President and
CEO. “The amended and restated senior secured credit facility
provides Eldorado greater financial flexibility as we pursue a
broader range of funding alternatives for the development of our
Kassandra assets in Greece.”
 

About Eldorado Gold
 

Eldorado is a gold and base metals producer with mining,
development and exploration operations in Turkey, Canada, Greece,
Romania, and Brazil. The Company has a highly skilled and
dedicated workforce, safe and responsible operations, a portfolio
of high-quality assets, and long-term partnerships with local
communities. Eldorado’s common shares trade on the
Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ELD) and the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE: EGO).
 

Contacts
 
 

Investor Relations
 

Lisa
Wilkinson, VP, Investor Relations

604.757
2237 or 1.888.353.8166

lisa.wilkinson@eldoradogold.com
 

 
 
 

Media
 
 

Louise
McMahon, Director Communications & Public Affairs

604.616
2296 or 1.888.363.8166

louise.mcmahon@eldoradogold.com

 

 

 

 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 

Certain of the statements made and information provided in this
press release are forward-looking statements or information within
the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities laws. Often,
these forward-looking statements and forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as
“anticipates”, “believes”,
“continue”, “expects”, “is
expected” or “intends” or the negatives thereof
or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results “may”, “could”,
“would”, “might” or “will” be
taken, occur or be achieved. Forward-looking statements or
information contained in this release include, but are not limited
to, statements or information with respect to our strengthened
balance sheet and financial position and funding alternatives for
the development of our Kassandra assets.
 

Forward-looking statements and forward-looking information by their
nature are based on assumptions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be
materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements or information. We have made certain assumptions about
the forward-looking statements and information, including
assumptions about: funding alternatives for the development of our
Kassandra assets; how the world-wide economic and social impact of
COVID-19 is managed and the duration and extent of the COVID-19
pandemic; the geopolitical, economic and legal climate that we
operate in; the repayment of outstanding indebtedness; and
anticipated costs and expenses. In particular, except where
otherwise stated, we have assumed a continuation of existing
business operations on substantially the same basis as exists at
the time of this release. Even though our management believes that
the assumptions made and the expectations represented by such
statements or information are reasonable, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statements or information will prove to be
accurate. Many assumptions may be difficult to predict and are
beyond our control.
 

Furthermore, should one or more of the risks, uncertainties or
other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described
in forward-looking statements or information. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors include, among others, the
following: global outbreaks of infectious diseases, including
COVID-19; geopolitical and economic climate (global and local)
risks; financing risks; as well as those risk factors discussed in
the sections titled “Forward-looking information and
risks” and “Risk factors in our business” in the
Company’s most recent Annual Information Form & Form
40-F. The reader is directed to carefully review the detailed risk
discussion in our most recent Annual Information Form filed on
SEDAR and EDGAR under our Company name, which discussion is
incorporated by reference in this release, for a fuller
understanding of the risks and uncertainties that affect the
Company’s business and operations.
 

Forward-looking statements and information are designed to help you
understand management’s current views of our near and longer
term prospects, and it may not be appropriate for other
purposes.
 

There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements or
information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such
statements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the
forward-looking statements or information contained herein. Except
as required by law, we do not expect to update forward-looking
statements and information continually as conditions change and you
are referred to the full discussion of the Company’s business
contained in the Company’s reports filed with the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and the U.S.