EX-99.1
2
fortunanrfeb72013.htm
FORTUNA NEWS RELEASE DATED FEBRUARY 7, 2013

Fortuna News Release

Fortuna launches new sustainability section on website 

February 7, 2013 -- Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. (NYSE: FSM | TSX: FVI | BVL: FVI | Frankfurt: F4S) is pleased to have launched a new section of its website devoted to sustainability (http://www.fortunasilver.com/s/sustainability.asp). The Sustainability section offers an overview of the many projects Fortuna is working on to create sustainable value for its employees, their families and the communities in which we operate. 

Fortuna’s sustainability efforts are committed to the three cornerstones of our values: maintaining the health and safety of its personnel, subscribing to the highest environmental standards and respecting its host communities. 

According to Jorge A. Ganoza, President and CEO, “Responsible corporate citizenship is the foundation on which Fortuna is built. We aim to establish programs based on respect for ethno-cultural diversity and open communication. The sustainability section of our website highlights our values, commitments and the company’s work to adhere to them.”

Please visit our new Sustainability section at http://www.fortunasilver.com/s/sustainability.asp.

Fortuna Silver Mines Inc.

Fortuna is a growth oriented, silver and base metal producer focused on mining opportunities in Latin America. Our primary assets are the Caylloma silver mine in southern Peru and the San Jose silver-gold mine in Mexico. The company is selectively pursuing additional acquisition opportunities. For more information, please visit our website at www.fortunasilver.com.

ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD

Jorge A. Ganoza 
President, CEO and Director
Fortuna Silver Mines Inc.

Trading symbols: NYSE: FSM | TSX: FVI | BVL: FVI | Frankfurt: F4S.F

Investor Relations: 

Management Head Office: Carlos Baca- Tel (Lima): +51.1.616.6060, ext. 0
Corporate Office: Holly Hendershot- Tel (Toronto): +1.647.725.0813 / Tel (Vancouver): +1.604.484.4085

Media Contact, North America:

Christina Pagano
Breakstone Group
Phone: 212-213-2851 
Mobile: 646-382-3871
E-mail: paganopr@aol.com

Forward-Looking Statements

This news release contains forward-looking statements which constitute “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation and “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and that are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. When used in this document, the words such as “anticipates”, “believes”, “plans”, “estimates”, “expects”, “forecasts”, “targets”, "intends”, “advance”, “projects”, “calculates” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements.

The forward-looking statements are based on an assumed set of economic conditions and courses of actions, including estimates of future production levels, expectations regarding mine production costs, expected trends in mineral prices and statements that describe Fortuna’s future plans, objectives or goals. There is a significant risk that actual results will vary, perhaps materially, from results projected depending on such factors as changes in general economic conditions and financial markets, changes in prices for silver and other metals, technological and operational hazards in Fortuna’s mining and mine development activities, risks inherent in mineral exploration, uncertainties inherent in the estimation of mineral reserves, mineral resources, and metal recoveries, the timing and availability of financing, governmental and other approvals, political unrest or instability in countries where Fortuna is active, labor relations and other risk factors.

Although Fortuna has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements or information, there may be other factors that cause results to be materially different from those anticipated, described, estimated, assessed or intended. There can be no assurance that any forward-looking statements or information will prove to be accurate as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements or information. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information.