EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

FORM 51–102F3 MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT

 
 Item 1 
 Name and Address of Company
 
Asanko Gold Inc. 680 – 1066 West Hastings Street
Vancouver,British Columbia V6E3X2 

 
 Item 2 
 Date of Material Changes

July 31, 2018 

 
 Item 3 
 News Release 
A news release was issued by Asanko Gold Inc. (“Asanko”
or the“Company”)on July 31, 2018 and distributed through Globe News
wire and filed on SEDAR. 

 
 Item 4 
 Summary of Material Changes
 
On July 31, 2018, the Company completed the joint venture
formation transactions between the Company and certain of its affiliates and
certain affiliates of Gold Fields Limited (“Gold Fields”) to create the
50:50 corporate joint venture (“JV”) for the ownership and operation of
the Asanko Gold Mine in Ghana and its associated mineral properties in Ghana
(collectively, the “JV Transaction”). On completion of the JV
Transaction, affiliates of Gold Fields invested an aggregate of $165 million
into three subsidiaries of Asanko, including a newly formed joint venture
entity, and these funds were used to repay the Company’s outstanding loan to EXP
T2 Ltd., an affiliate of RK Mine Finance Trust I (“Red Kite”). Gold
Fields (JSE:GFI) (NYSE:GFI), is one of the world’s largest gold producers and
the second largest gold producer in Ghana.
Unless otherwise noted, all references to “$” in this Material
Change Report mean the United States dollars. 

 
 Item 5 
 Full Description of Material
 Change 

 
 5.1 
 
 Full Description of Material Change
 
On March 29, 2018 Asanko and its subsidiaries PMI Gold
Corporation (“PMI”), Asanko Gold Ghana Limited (“AGGL”) and Adansi
Gold Company (GH) Limited (“Adansi”) (together, and with AGB (as defined
below), the “Asanko Parties”), entered into a combination agreement (the
“Combination Agreement”) with Gold Fields Netherlands Services B.V.
(“GFNSBV”), Gold Fields Orogen Holding (BVI) Limited (“GF Orogen”)
and Marsh Holdings Inc. (“GF Canada”). Each of GFNSBV, GF Orogen, GF
Canada and an additional affiliate, GFI Netherlands B.V. (“GF Dutchco”),
is a wholly owned subsidiary of Gold Fields (the subsidiaries together, the
“GF Parties”). 
In accordance with the Combination Agreement, the Company
completed a private placement (the “Private Placement”) to GF Canada of
22,354,657 common shares (the “GF Private Placement Shares”), at a price
of approximately $0.79 (C$1.0121) per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of
$17,555,205. The Private Placement was completed on April 4, 2018. Concurrently
with completion of the Private Placement, the Company also entered into an
investor rights agreement with GF Canada (the “Investor Rights Agreement”). The provisions of the
Combination Agreement and the Investor Rights Agreement are described in detail
in the Company’s Material Change Report filed on SEDAR on April 9, 2018. 

The Combination Agreement was entered into in connection with
 the formation of the 50:50 corporate JV between the Company and certain of its
 affiliates and certain affiliates of Gold Fields to jointly own and operate the
 Asanko Gold Mine in Ghana and its associated properties. The JV Transaction was
 completed on July 31, 2018 and as a result, Asanko and Gold Fields are now,
 through their respective affiliate companies, 50:50 corporate joint venture
 partners in the ownership and operation of the Asanko Gold Mine and its
 associated properties. The Government of Ghana continues to hold a free-carried
10% interest in AGGL which owns the Asanko Gold Mine. 
JV Transaction 
The completion of the JV Transaction involved the completion of
the following transactions and execution of the following agreements: 

 
 
 • 
 
 in advance of completion of the JV Transaction, Asanko
 and its affiliates completed certain reorganization steps internal to
 Asanko that included: 

 
 
 o 
 
 the consolidation of the Asanko intercompany loans to
 AGGL and Adansi into a newly formed Isle of Man company, Shika Group
 Finance Limited, incorporated to finance the joint venture (“JV
 FinCo”); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 o 
 
 the capitalization of approximately $200 million of the
 intercompany loans and an additional $5 million cash contributed by Asanko
 into an aggregate of approximately $205 million JV FinCo redeemable shares
 acquired by Asanko Gold (Barbados) Inc. (“AGB”), a wholly-owned
 subsidiary of Asanko; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 o 
 
 the capitalization of the balance of the intercompany
 loans into common shares of JV Finco; 

 
 
 • 
 
 following the internal reorganization transactions, GF
 Orogen completed the cash investment of approximately $165 million into JV
 Finco in exchange for redeemable preferred shares of JV FinCo (the “GF
 Redeemable Share Investment”); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the proceeds from the GF Redeemable Share Investment were
 used to enable AGGL to repay the principal and capitalised interest owing
 by AGGL to Red Kite under a definitive senior facilities agreement (the
 “RK Loan ”) dating from 2014 that was used by Asanko to construct
 the Asanko Gold Mine; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 following the repayment of the RK Loan, certain of the GF
 Parties subscribed for and purchased the following ordinary share
 interests for relatively nominal consideration:

 
 
 o 
 
 50% of the common share equity of JV FinCo; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 o 
 
 50% of the ordinary shares of AGGL (exclusive of the 10%
 interest retained by the Government of Ghana); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 o 
 
 50% of Adansi; 

 
 
 • 
 
 as a result of the above subscriptions, certain of the
 Asanko Parties and the GF Parties now own (i) equal common share interests
 in each of JV Finco, AGGL and Adansi, and (ii) redeemable share interests
 of approximately $205 million, held by AGB, and approximately $165
 million, held by GF Orogen; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the Company, AGB, JV Finco, AGGL, Adansi, GF Orogen,
 GFNSBV and GF Dutchco entered into a Joint Venture Companies and Services
 Agreement dated July 31, 2018 (the “JVSA”) for the ownership and
 operation of the Asanko Gold Mine, as described in greater detail below
 under “The Joint Venture Agreement (“JVSA”)”. The Company and AGB
 on the one hand, and GF Orogen, GFNSBV and GF Dutchco on the other, are
 referred to as the “Participating Groups” for purposes of the JVSA;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 as contemplated in the JVSA, the Company, AGGL, Adansi
 and GF Dutchco entered into an amended and restated services agreement
 dated July 31, 2018 (the “Services Agreement”) under which the
 Company will provide management services and act as “Service Provider” (a
 role sometimes referred to as JV “operator”) for the benefit of each of
 AGGL and Adansi in accordance with the JVSA for fees expected to be
 approximately $6 million per year; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 as required under the Combination Agreement, the Company
 entered into a registration rights agreement dated July 31, 2018 (the
 “Registration Rights Agreement”) with certain of the GF Parties
 whereby the Company provided share registration rights to GF Canada in
 connection with the resale of the GF Private Placement Shares.
 
Under the Combination Agreement, GF Orogen will invest a
further $20 million in JV FinCo redeemable shares upon the earlier of the
occurrence of certain development milestone events and December 31, 2019. Upon
completion of this investment, the proceeds will be immediately paid over by JV
FinCo to AGB in order to redeem $20 million of Asanko’s redeemable shares of JV
Finco, thereby equalizing each side’s redeemable share investments into JV FinCo
at approximately $185 million. Pending the completion of this investment, the
parties will operate under the JVSA as a 50:50 joint venture. 
The Joint Venture Agreement (“JVSA”) 
The JVSA has been entered into to govern the joint venture
relationship between the Participating Groups respecting the ownership and
operation of JV Finco, AGGL and Adansi and the assets and liabilities of the JV
which include the Asanko Gold Mine. The Participating Groups own their
respective interests in the Asanko Gold Mine and other assets through the equal
ownership of common share equity of each of AGGL, which is owner of the Asanko
Gold Mine, Adansi, which owns other Ghanaian mineral property interests, and JV
FinCo. AGGL, Adansi and JV Finco are referred to collectively as the “JV
Companies”. The Government of Ghana continues to retain a 10% free-carried
interest in AGGL. 
The JVSA includes the following material terms: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Establishment of a management committee to oversee the
 operation and any development of the JV, with initial equal representation
 from the Participating Groups, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Agreements as to board representation and management of
 each of the JV Companies with initial equal representation from the
 Participating Groups, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Adjustment to management committee and board
 representation in the event of future changes in ownership of the JV
 Companies. 

 
 
 • 
 
 Voting on the management committee and the boards of the
 JV Companies is in accordance with the Participating Groups’ respective JV
 ownership interests and is deemed to be 50:50 pending completion of the
 additional $20 million investment by the GF Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 An expedited dispute resolution process by reference to
 an expert for “ordinary decisions”, which are all decisions which are not
 “Special Majority Decisions”. Special Majority Decisions require 85%
 voting approval and so will effectively require unanimity as long as the
 Participating Groups are 50:50. Special Majority Decisions principally
 include: 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 Approval of annual programs and budgets including changes
 from the previous year or to the life-of-mine business plan which vary by
 more than 6%.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 Approval for monthly cash calls in an amount which is
 100% or more of the monthly cash call forecasted under the then current
 approved program and budget.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 
 Expansion of the area of the operations beyond the
 development area, the disposition or surrender or relinquishment of
 property titles, the disposal or sale of any assets whose book value
 exceeds $30 million, the abandonment of material operations, or approval
 of a closure plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 
 The sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all
 of the JV assets or merger or consolidation of any of the JV operations or
 entities with any other business or entity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5) 
 
 Placing the mining operations on "care and maintenance"
 unless they are projected to operate with negative cash flow beyond
 certain defined time and amount thresholds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6) 
 
 Any changes in the JV auditor, and engaging in certain
 financial transactions such as hedging or foreign currency obligations for
 the JV.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7) 
 
 The JV borrowing in excess of $5 million and granting
 security interests in JV assets, and effecting other transaction types
 generally in excess of $5 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8) 
 
 Initiating or settling lawsuits or arbitration
 proceedings in excess of certain thresholds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9) 
 
 Approval of any material delay of expenditure of more
 than the greater of 15% and $5 million in relation to an approved program
 and budget.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10) 
 
 Any change in the constating documents or in the
 authorized capital of any JV Company or the taking of any steps to wind-up
 or terminate a JV Company or convert any shareholder loan of any JV
 Company into shares of that JV Company.

 
 
 • 
 
 Special Majority Decisions are not subject to expert
 determination or arbitration and each Participating Group is permitted to
 vote on them in its own self-interest. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Asanko will act as Manager (or operator) under the
 Services Agreement that establishes the duties and responsibilities of
 Asanko as Manager and the manner of determination of the compensation
 payable to Asanko as Manager. Compensation is agreed to be (and not exceed
 that amount except for US inflation) approximately $6 million per year.
 Asanko can be removed for customary reasons including misconduct,
 insolvency and JV equity dilution of its interest below a 30% interest in
 the JV. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The manner of preparation and approval of programs and
 budgets for the Asanko Gold Mine and timing for their adoption and implementation. 

 
 
 • 
 
 The parties have agreed that funding for the JV will
 generally come firstly from cash flow from Asanko Gold Mine operations,
 secondly from third party borrowings by the joint venture and lastly from
 cash calls to the Participating Groups themselves. Where program funding
 is requested of the parties in excess of $20 million per year, a
 Participating Group may elect to fund a lesser amount of the program or
 none at all and may in such case suffer equity dilution in the JV if the
 other Participating Group funds the shortfall. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The JVSA has equity dilution provisions based on the
 amount of non-participation in a program calculated as a fraction of the
 amount not funded divided by the appraised value of the JV. The JVSA also
 has additional penalty equity dilution of 50% of the voluntary dilution
 amount where a Participating Group commits to a program funding but fails
 to timely provide it and the other Participating Group makes a cover
 payment to provide the JV with the required funding. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Under the JVSA each Participating Group has the right
 undertake the sole risk development in respect of a new development
 program which is supported by a “positive” (≥ 15% rate of return)
 feasibility study where the other Participating Group declines to
 participate. In such event the funding Participating Group will act as
 Manager to implement the new development and must include compensation to
 the other Participating Group for any interference in existing mine
 operations. The other Participating Group may elect to back-in to the new
 development by paying its pro rata share plus a 50% risk premium within 6
 months of project completion. If the other Participating Group does not
 elect to back-in, then the sole risk Participating Group will be entitled
 to priority to 100% of cash flow of the new development until its payback
 (recovery of all carried costs plus interest) plus a 100% risk premium.
 After achieving invested funds payback including interest, plus a 100%
 premium, the sole risk Participating Group may be required by the other
 Participating Group to contribute its priority cash flow rights to the JV
 for $1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The JVSA defines customary events of default and remedies
 of a non-defaulting Participating Group against a defaulting Participating
 Group, including circumstances where the sale of the interest of a
 defaulting Participating Group may be compelled, subject the ability of
 the defaulting Participating Group to make cover payments where defaults
 may be remedied within an agreed period of time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The JVSA has provisions relating to capital accounts,
 records, other accounts, reports and audits and establishes the criteria
 for adjustment and determination of distributable cash. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The JVSA has restrictions on transfer and manner of sale
 obligations, including rights of pre- emption as well as mechanics for
 dispute resolution including use of arbitration insofar as possible to
 resolve disputes. 
Services Agreement 
The Services Agreement includes the following material terms:

 
 
 • 
 
 The Company will act as “Service Provider” under the JVSA
 and provide AGGL and Adansi with technical and non-technical support and
 assistance in relation to the operation of the Asanko Gold Mine and
 related properties in accordance with the JVSA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The services to be provided will be to enable each of
 AGGL and Adansi to properly conduct its operations in accordance with the
 strategic and operational goals determined by the management
 committee under the JVSA and implement approved programs and
budgets under the JVSA. 

 
 
 • 
 
 The Company is entitled to receive services fees based on
 the Company’s direct costs plus an agreed mark-up, plus an additional fee
 associated with supervised costs (costs incurred by a joint venture
 company which are supervised by the Company), subject to a service fee cap
 of $6.0 million in any fiscal year and with an expectation that the
 service fees will aggregate approximately $6.0 million (subject to US
 inflation) in each fiscal year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Company’s appointment is for the life of the Asanko
 Gold Mine, subject to the terms of the Services Agreement, and the
 agreement will remain in force for the longer of the current life-of -
 mine plan and sixteen (16) years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Company may be required to resign as Service Provider
 upon the occurrence of certain events, including upon the occurrence of
 events of default, certain changes of control relating to the Company, the
 Company’s ownership interest in the JV dropping below 30% and upon a
 Special Majority Decision under the JVSA. 
Registration Rights Agreement 
The Registration Rights Agreement includes the following
material terms: 

 
 
 • 
 
 GF Canada has been provided with both demand and
 piggyback registration rights to cause the GF Private Placement Shares to
 be qualified for resale both in Canada and the United States under
 applicable Canadian and United States securities laws. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The demand registration rights are subject to two demand
 requests in any year, limitations relating to black-out periods and other
 customary limitations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The piggyback registration rights are subject to the
 qualification not having any material adverse impact on the Company’s
 proposed offering and other customary limitations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Corporation will generally be responsible for all
 registration expenses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Registration Rights Agreement includes customary
 provisions relating to registration procedures and indemnification.
 
Interim (Backstop) Loan not Proceeded With 
As Red Kite agreed to a defer the first principal repayment of
the RK Loan from July 1, 2018 until August 1, 2018, and the RK Loan was repaid
in full concurrent with the closing of the JV Transaction, the Interim Loan from
GF Parties contemplated by the Combination Agreement was not called on by
Asanko. As a result, the GF Parties will not be issued any additional shares of
Asanko in connection with the Combination Agreement and the JV Transaction. 
Estimated Impact on Company’s Financial Statements 
The following disclosure represents management’s current
estimates using unaudited figures and certain assumptions as described under
“Pro Forma Financial Statements“ below. For accounting
purposes, the JVSA establishes joint control of the Mine between the Asanko
Parties and the GF Parties (the “Joint Arrangement”). As the Company does
not retain sole control of the Mine, and due to the fact that the Joint
Arrangement has been structured within the legal entities of JV FinCo, AGGL and
Adansi, the Joint Arrangement represents a joint venture as defined under IFRS11
– Joint Arrangements. Effective as of closing of the JV Transaction on
July 31, 2018, Asanko commenced equity accounting for its interest in the Joint
Arrangement, and the Company derecognized all the assets and liabilities of its
Ghanaian subsidiaries, as well as the carrying amount of previously recognized
non-controlling interests in AGGL (which were previously presented on a
consolidated basis). The Company recognized the fair value of its interest in
the Joint Arrangement. The Company expects to record a loss associated with the
loss of control as at the closing date, $144.6 million of which (or $0.64 per
share) was recorded as part of the Company’s interim financial statements for
the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when the Company reclassified the
assets and associated liabilities of its Ghanaian subsidiaries as held for sale
in accordance with IFRS 5 - Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued
Operations. The non-cash loss associated with the loss of control remains
subject to changes associated with the operating results of the Asanko Gold Mine
from July 1, 2018 until the closing date of the JV Transaction, but is expected
to be less than $0.80 per share in total. The Company’s retained interest in the
Joint Arrangement is comprised of and will be accounted for as follows: 

 
 
 • 
 
 $20 million in redeemable preference shares which are
 redeemable by JV Finco based on an agreed Esaase development milestone,
 but in any event no later than December 31, 2019.The Company will account
 for this financial asset at amortized cost ($19.2 million as at closing of
 the JV Transaction); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $184.9 million redeemable preference shares which have no
 fixed redemption date and shall be measured at fair value through profit
 and loss. As the closing date of the JV Transaction, the fair value was
 estimated at $148.9 million; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $127.3 million of equity interest in the Joint
 Arrangement which will subsequently increase or decrease for the Company’s
 share of the future profits or losses of the Joint Arrangement.
 
ProForma Financial Statements 
In order to demonstrate the likely impact of the JV Transaction
on the Company’s future consolidated financial statements the Company has
prepared an unaudited pro forma statement of operations and comprehensive income
for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and a pro forma statement of financial
position as at June 30, 2018, on the basis that the JV Transaction occurred on
December 31, 2017. 
The pro forma financial statements have been prepared for
illustrative purposes only, and are not necessarilyreflective of the results of
operations that would have resulted had the JV Transaction closed on December
31, 2017. Further, the pro forma financial statements are not necessarily
indicative of the future results of operations which would result from the JV
Transaction. These pro forma financial statements should be read in conjunction
with the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Asanko as at and for the
six months ended June 30, 2018. The pro forma financial statements do not
reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or enhancements that the joint
venture may achieve, or liabilities arising from the operations of the joint
venture. Such savings or liabilities could be material. 
Similarly, the pro forma loss associated with the loss of
control in Asanko’s Ghanaian subsidiaries that has been included in the pro
forma accumulated deficit as at June 30, 2018 below, will differ from the actual
loss associated with the loss of control. Differences between the actual and pro
forma loss associated with the loss of control may arise from various factors,
including the following factors: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Changes in intercompany loans between Asanko and AGGL,
 Adansi and JV Finco from December 31, 2017 to the closing date of the JV
 Transaction (July 31, 2018). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 The results of operations of AGGL, Adansi and
 JV Finco from December 31, 2017 to the closing date of the JV Transaction
(July 31, 2018). 

ASANKO GOLD INC.UNAUDITED
PRO-FORMA CONSOLIDATED INTERIM STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(LOSS)FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2018(In thousands of United
States Dollars, except dollar per share amounts)

 
 
 
 Six months ended 
 
 
 
 
 June 30, 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income from Joint Venture 
 
 5,893 
 
 
 General and administrative expenses** 
 
 (1,644
 ) 
 
 Income from operations 
 
 4,249 
 
 
 Finance income 
 
 5,611 
 
 
 Finance expense 
 
 (8
 )
 
 
 Foreign exchange loss 
 
 (72
 ) 
 
 Income before income taxes

 
 9,780 
 
 
 Current income tax expense 
 
 (946
 ) 
 
 Net income and comprehensive income for the period
 attributed to common shareholders 
 
 8,834 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per share
 attributable to common shareholders: 
 
 
 
 
 Basic 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 Diluted 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 Weighted average number of shares
 outstanding: 
 
 
 
 
 Basic 
 
 225,804,614 
 
 
 Diluted 
 
 225,806,396 
 

 
 ** 
 
 The Company provides management services and acts as
 Manager for the benefit of the Joint Venture, in accordance with the JVSA,
 for fees expected to be approximately $6 million per year. General and
 administrative expenses are presented net of a pro forma $3 million
 recovery, representing the recovery of management fees for the six-month
 pro-forma period.

ASANKO GOLD INC.UNAUDITED
PRO-FORMA CONSOLIDATED INTERIM STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITIONAS AT JUNE 30,
2018(In thousands of United States Dollars)

 
 
 
 June 30, 2018 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 Assets 
 
 
 
 
 Current assets 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash
 equivalents 
 
 18,756 
 
 
 Receivables 
 
 4,878 
 
 
 Prepaid expenses
 and deposits 
 
 337 
 
 
 VAT receivable 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 23,976 
 
 
 Non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 Financial assets 
 
 173,267 
 
 
 Interest in Joint Venture 
 
 131,142 
 
 
 Mineral properties, plant and equipment 
 
 88 
 
 
 
 
 304,497 
 
 
 Total assets 
 
 328,473 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 Current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 Accounts payable
 and accrued liabilities 
 
 5,793 
 
 
 Non-current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term incentive plan liability 
 
 101 
 
 
 Total liabilities 
 
 5,894 
 
 
 Equity 
 
 
 
 
 Common shareholders' equity 
 
 
 
 
 Share capital
 
 578,853 
 
 
 Equity reserves
 
 48,904 
 
 
 Accumulated deficit 
 
 (305,178
 ) 
 
 Total common shareholders' equity 
 
 322,579 
 
 
 Total liabilities and equity
 
 328,473
 
 

Pro forma adjustments reflected in the statements above
include: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 the Company’s equity interest in the pro forma profit of
 AGGL for the six months ended June 30, 2018 reflect reduced depreciation
 as the pro forma loss associated with the loss of control as at December
 31, 2017 reduced the opening carrying value of AGGL’s mineral property,
 plant and equipment as at January 1, 2018.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 the Company’s equity interest in the pro forma profit of
 AGGL for the six months ended June 30, 2018 reflect increased deferred
 income tax expenses as the reduced pro forma depreciation for the six
 months ended June 30, 2018 gives rise to an increased pro forma taxable
 temporary difference.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 the recognition of finance income for the six months
 ended June 30, 2018 associated with fair value adjustment to the Company’s
 $184.9 million interest in JV Finco redeemable preference
shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 the recognition of finance income for the six months
 ended June 30, 2018 associated with accretion of the amortized cost of the
 Company’s $20 million interest in JV Finco redeemable preference
 shares. 

SEDAR Filing 
A copy of the JVSA is being filed concurrently on SEDAR with
the filing of this Material Change Report. The form of the Services Agreement is
attached as a schedule to the JVSA. Investors are advised to refer to the copy
of the filed agreements for a description of the terms of the aforementioned
agreements. The summary of material terms provided herein is qualified by
reference to the entirety of the agreements. 

 
 5.2 
 
 Disclosure for Restructuring
 Transactions
Not applicable. 

 
 Item 6 
 Reliance on subsection 7.1(2) of National
 Instrument 51–102 
Not applicable. 

 
 Item 7 
 OmittedInformation 
Not applicable. 

 
 Item 8 
 ExecutiveOfficer 
Fausto Di Trapani Chief Financial Officer Telephone:
778-729-0627 

 
 Item 9 
 Date of Report 
August 10, 2018