EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

ASANKO GOLD FILES EXPANSION DFS TECHNICAL REPORT

Vancouver, British Columbia, July 18, 2017 – Asanko Gold
Inc. (“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE MKT: AKG) today filed the
National Instrument (“NI”) 43-101 Technical Report for the Expansion Definitive
Feasibility Study (“DFS”) of the Asanko Gold Mine (“AGM” or the “Project”) in
Ghana, West Africa, which can be found on SEDAR, www.sedar.com, and the Company’s website, www.asanko.com. The Expansion DFS has been authored by
leading mining consultancy and professional services firms CSA Global, CJM
Consulting, DRA Global, Knight Piésold and Venmyn Deloitte.
Peter Breese, President and CEO, commented “The NI 43-101
Technical Report, which has been certified by internationally recognized mining
industry consultants, confirms the Asanko Gold Mine is a quality, multi-pit
complex that has over 5 million ounces of reserves, a long mine life, a viable
organic growth production profile and strong cash flow generation.” 
The 43-101 Technical Report includes an update to the AGM
global Mineral Resource Estimate (“MRE”) to align the MRE with other resource
estimates in the gold sector. The constraining gold price has been lowered from
US$2,000/oz to US$1,500/oz, refer to Table 1.
Importantly the AGM mineral reserves remain unchanged at 101
million tonnes at 1.57 g/t for 5.1 million ounces of contained gold, based on a
US$1,300/oz gold price, which is within industry norms. 
Table 1: Asanko Gold Mine Global Mineral Resource Estimate –
Constraining Gold Price Sensitivity 

 
 Gold Price
 
 Measured 
 Indicated 
 Total 
 (M&I) 
 
 
 Mt 
 g/t Au 
 Moz 
 Mt 
 g/t Au 
 Moz 
 Mt 
 g/t Au 
 Moz 
 
 US$2,000/oz 
 37.4 
 1.42 
 1.70 
 123.0 
 1.46 
 5.79 
 160.4 
 1.45 
 7.49 
 
 US$1,500/oz 
 37.3 
 1.43 
 1.72 
 101.7 
 1.49 
 4.87 
 139.0 
 1.47 
 6.59 

Notes: All pits are at a cut-off of 0.5g/t Au.
All figures are rounded to reflect appropriate levels of confidence.
Apparent differences may occur due to rounding. 
Enquiries: For further information please visit:
www.asanko.com, email: info@asanko.com or contact: 
Alex Buck - Manager, Investor and Media Relations Toll-Free
(N.America): +1-855-246-7341 Telephone: +44-7932-740-452 Email:
alex.buck@asanko.com 
Ryan Walchuck, VP Corporate Development and Investor Relations
Telephone: +1-778-986-2000 Email: ryan.walchuck@asanko.com

 
 
 1
 

Qualified Persons StatementsPhil Bentley, Asanko
Executive: Geology and Resources (Pr.Sci.Nat.; FSAGS) is the Asanko Qualified
Person under NI 43-101 guidelines who assumes technical responsibility for the
updated Mineral Resource contents of this news release. 
Frederik Fourie, Asanko Senior Mining Engineer (Pr.Eng.) is the
Asanko Qualified Person under NI 43-101 who assumes technical responsibility for
the Mineral Reserves contents of this news release. 
About Asanko Gold Inc.Asanko’s vision is to become a
mid-tier gold mining company that maximizes value for all its stakeholders. The
Company’s flagship project is the multi-million ounce Asanko Gold Mine located
in Ghana, West Africa.
Asanko is managed by highly skilled and successful technical,
operational and financial professionals. The Company is strongly committed to
the highest standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and
health and safety for its employees and neighbouring communities. 
Forward-Looking and other Cautionary Information
This release includes certain statements that may be deemed
"forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than
statements of historical facts, that address estimated resource quantities,
grades and contained metals, possible future mining, exploration and development
activities, are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements
should not be in any way construed as guarantees of future performance and
actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those in forward-looking statements include market prices for
metals, the conclusions of detailed feasibility and technical analyses, the
timely renewal of key permits, lower than expected grades and quantities of
resources, mining rates and recovery rates and the lack of availability of
necessary capital, which may not be available to the Company on terms acceptable
to it or at all. At the time of this press release, the Company has not yet
decided to implement the plans outlined in the DFS. The Company is subject to
the specific risks inherent in the mining business as well as general economic
and business conditions. For more information on the Company, investors should
review the Company's Annual Form 40-F filing with the United States Securities
Commission and its home jurisdiction filings that are available at
www.sedar.com.
Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or
accuracy of this release. 
Cautionary Note to US Investors Regarding Mineral Reporting
Standards: Asanko has prepared its disclosure in accordance with the
requirements of securities laws in effect in Canada, which differ from the
requirements of US securities laws. Terms relating to mineral resources in this
press release are defined in accordance with National Instrument 43-101 -
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects under the guidelines set out in the
Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy, and Petroleum Standards on Mineral
Resources and Mineral Reserves. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”) permits mining companies, in their filings with the
SEC, to disclose only those mineral deposits that a company can economically and
legally extract or produce. Asanko uses certain terms, such as, “measured
mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources”, “inferred mineral resources”
and “probable mineral reserves”, that the SEC does not recognize (these terms
may be used in this press release and are included in the public filings of
Asanko which have been filed with securities commissions or similar authorities
in Canada). 

 
 
 2