EX-99.1
2
exhibit991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED JUNE 24, 2015

Exhibit 99.1

TSX, NYSE: AKG

FATALITY AT ASANKO GOLD PROJECT

Vancouver, British Columbia, June 24, 2015 – Asanko Gold Inc. (“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE MKT: AKG) regrets to announce that an accident occurred this morning at its project in Ghana, the Asanko Gold Mine, which resulted in the death of a contractor engaged in mining activities.

The Company is deeply saddened by the news and expresses its sincere condolences to the family of the deceased.

The incident was immediately reported to the relevant regulatory authorities who have conducted an initial inspection and have given clearance for work to resume. A full internal investigation into this incident is underway and a comprehensive review of both the mine and the contractor's operating and health and safety procedures is also being conducted. 

Enquiries:
For further information please visit: www.asanko.com, email: info@asanko.com or contact:

Alex Buck, Manager – Investor Relations
Toll-Free (N.America): 1-855-246-7341
Telephone: +44-7932-740-452
Email: alex.buck@asanko.com
 

About Asanko Gold Inc.
Asanko’s vision is to become a mid-tier gold mining company that maximizes value for all its stakeholders. The Company’s flagship project is the multi-million ounce Asanko Gold Mine located in Ghana, West Africa. The mine is being developed in phases. Phase 1 is fully financed, permitted and under construction. First gold is expected in Q1 2016, with steady state production of 190,000 ounces per annum in Q2 2016.

Asanko is managed by highly skilled and successful technical, operational and financial professionals. The Company is strongly committed to the highest standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and health and safety for its employees and neighbouring communities. 

Forward-Looking and other Cautionary Information
This release includes certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than statements of historical facts, that address estimated resource quantities, grades and contained metals, possible future mining, exploration and development activities, are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements should not be in any way construed as guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include market prices for metals, the conclusions of detailed feasibility and technical analyses, lower than expected grades and quantities of resources, mining rates and recovery rates and the lack of availability of necessary capital, which may not be available to the Company on terms acceptable to it or at all. The Company is subject to the specific risks inherent in the mining business as well as general economic and business conditions. For more information on the Company, Investors should review the Company's annual Form 20-F filing with the United States Securities Commission and its home jurisdiction filings that are available at www.sedar.com.

Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

1