EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 
ASANKO GOLD SENIOR MANAGEMENT APPOINTMENTS

Vancouver, British Columbia, November 7, 2018 – Asanko Gold
Inc. (“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE American: AKG) is pleased to
announce Rob Slater’s new role as Executive Vice President of Strategy and the
appointment of Dr. Andrew J. Ramcharan (PhD, P.Eng, FAusIMM) as Senior Vice
President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations and member of the
Asanko Executive Committee, effective immediately.
Dr. Andrew J. Ramcharan joins Asanko from Sprott Resources
where he was Managing Director of Project Evaluation for both debt and equity
sides. He has over 18 years’ experience in operations, project evaluation,
mergers and acquisitions, corporate development, project finance and investor
relations. During his career, Andrew has worked for a number of well-respected
companies including IAMGOLD Corporation and Resource Capital Funds. He holds a
B.Eng degree in Mining Engineering, and a Master’s and Ph.D degree in Mining and
Minerals Economics. 
Dr. Ramcharan is also a Registered Member of The Society for
Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration (SME) in USA, Licensed Professional Engineer
in Ontario, Canada and Fellow of The Australasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy. Dr. Ramcharan is a graduate of the Colorado School of Mines,
University of Leoben and completed Harvard University’s Continuing Education
program. 
Commenting on the appointments, Peter Breese, President &
CEO, said “With the Gold Fields Joint Venture transaction now completed, it’s
the appropriate time to realign our management team accordingly. As Asanko’s
lead representative, Rob will focus on managing the Joint Venture structures as
well as our corporate strategy, and I am delighted to welcome Andrew to the team
to lead our corporate development and investor relations initiatives. Andrew
brings a unique combination of experience, sound technical knowledge and capital
markets expertise to Asanko.”
Enquiries: For further information please visit:
www.asanko.com, email: info@asanko.com or contact: 

 
 Alex Buck – Manager, Investor and Media Relations 
 
 Toll-Free (N.America): 1-855-246-7341 
 
 Telephone: +44-7932-740-452 
 
 Email: alex.buck@asanko.com
 
 
 
 
 Andrew J. Ramcharan – SVP, Corporate Development and
 Investor Relations 
 
 Toll-Free (N.America): 1-855-246-7341 
 
 Telephone: +1 647 309 5130 
 
 Email: andrew.ramcharan@asanko.com
 

 
 
 1
 

About Asanko Gold Inc. Asanko’s vision is to become
a mid-tier gold mining company that maximizes value for all its stakeholders.
The Company’s flagship project, located in Ghana, West Africa, is the jointly
owned Asanko Gold Mine with Gold Fields Ltd, which Asanko manages and operates.
Asanko is managed by highly skilled and successful technical, operational and
financial professionals. The Company is strongly committed to the highest
standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and health and
safety for its employees and neighbouring communities.
Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or
accuracy of this release. 

 
 
 2