EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Galiano Gold Inc.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 
 
 (All dollar amounts are United States dollars unless otherwise stated)
 INDEPENDENT PROXY ADVISORY FIRMS RECOMMEND THAT GALIANO GOLD INC.'S SHAREHOLDERS VOTE FOR ALL RESOLUTIONS AT THE UPCOMING ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 Vancouver, British Columbia, May 18, 2023 - Galiano Gold Inc. ("Galiano" or the "Company") (TSX, NYSE American: GAU) is pleased to announce that Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. ("ISS") and Glass Lewis and Co., LLC ("Glass Lewis") have both recommended that Galiano's shareholders vote FOR all the proposed resolutions that will be considered at the Company's annual general meeting of shareholders (the "Meeting") which will held virtually on Wednesday June 1, 2023 at 10:00 a.m. (Pacific Time).
 ISS and Glass Lewis are two leading independent proxy advisory firms that, among other services, provide voting recommendations to pension funds, investment managers, mutual funds and other institutional shareholders.
 Galiano Gold Inc.'s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
 The Meeting will be held online at https://meetnow.global/MD5KHZ for the following purposes:
 (i) fix the number of directors to be elected at six;
 (ii) elect directors of the Company for the ensuing year;
 (iii) approve the Amended Share Option Plan;
 (iv) approve the unallocated entitlements under the Share Option Plan;
 (v) approve the Amended Share Unit Plan;
 (vi) approve the unallocated entitlements under the Share Unit Plan;
 (vii) appoint the auditor of the Company for the ensuing year and to authorize the directors to fix their remuneration; and
 (viii) authorize and approve a non‐binding advisory resolution accepting the Company's approach to executive compensation.
 Galiano shareholders are encouraged to read the meeting materials in detail and cast their votes prior to the proxy voting deadline. Copies of the meeting materials are available under Galiano's profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and under the "Investors" section on Galiano's website at www.galianogold.com/investors/annual-meeting
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 YOUR VOTE IS IMPORTANT - PLEASE VOTE TODAY
 The Board of Directors UNANIMOUSLY recommends that shareholders vote FOR all proposed resolutions that will be considered at the Meeting.
 Submit your vote well in advance of the proxy voting deadline at 10:00 a.m. (Pacific Time) on Tuesday May 30, 2023.
 How to vote
 Galiano shareholders can vote their shares using the following methods:
 Voting for Registered Shareholders (shares represented by a physical certificate or DRS Statement)
 
 Internet - Go to www.investorvote.com, enter your 15-digit control number found on your form of proxy and vote your shares.
 Telephone - Call 1-866-732-8683, enter your 15-digit control number and follow the interactive voice control instructions to vote your shares.
 
 Voting for Non-Registered/Beneficial Shareholders (shares held with a broker, bank or other intermediary)
 
 Internet - Go to www.proxyvote.com, enter your 16-digit control number found on your voting instruction form and vote your shares.
 Telephone - Call 1-800-474-7493, enter your 16-digit control number and follow the interactive voice control instructions to vote your shares.
 
 Shareholder Questions:
 Shareholders who have any questions or require assistance with voting may contact Galiano's proxy solicitation agent:
 Laurel Hill Advisory Group
 Toll Free: 1-877-452-7184
 International: +1 416-304-0211 outside Canada and the US
 By Email: assistance@laurelhill.com
 About Galiano Gold Inc.
 Galiano is focused on creating a sustainable business capable of value creation for all stakeholders through production, exploration and disciplined deployment of its financial resources. The Company operates and manages the Asanko Gold Mine, which is located in Ghana, West Africa, and jointly owned with Gold Fields. Galiano is committed to the highest standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and the health and safety of its employees and neighbouring communities. For more information, please visit www.galianogold.com.
 Enquiries:
 Krista Muhr
 Toll-Free (N. America): 1-855-246-7341
 Telephone: 1-778-239-0446
 Email: info@galianogold.com
 
 
 
 2