EX-99.1
2
exh99_1.htm
MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT DATED JUNE 4, 2007

 exh99_1.htm
 
 
 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

51-102F3 Material Change Report [F]

Published December 29, 2006

Effective December 29, 2006

 

 

Item 1 Name and Address of Company

 

 

Keegan Resources Corp.

1204 - 700 West Pender Street

Vancouver, B.C., V6C 1G8

 

 

Item 2 Date of Material Change

 

June 4, 2007

 

Item 3 News Release

 

The news release dated June 4, 2007 was disseminated through Canada Stockwatch and Market News under section 7.1 of National Instrument 51-102.

 

Item 4 Summary of Material Change

 

Please refer to attached news release.

 

Item 5 Full Description of Material Change

 

5.1 Full Description of Material Change

 

Please refer to attached news release

 

5.2 Disclosure for Restructuring Transactions

 

N/A

 

Item 6 Reliance on subsection 7.1(2) or (3) of National Instrument 51-102

 

N/A

 

Item 7 Omitted Information

 

N/A

 

Item 8 Executive Officer

 

Dan McCoy, Ph.D., President & CEO

 

Item 9 Date of Report

 

June 4, 2007

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE 

TSX-V: KGN

 

 

KEEGAN DRILLS DISCOVERY HOLE IN NEW PARALLEL GOLD ZONE AT ESAASE PROPERTY

 

 

June 4, 2007, Keegan is pleased to release the results from the first drill hole placed in the B-1 fault at the Esaase Gold Property in southwest Ghana. Hole 33, which is more than 1.5 km from the resource definition drilling (Main) zone, intercepted 32 m @ 0.65 g/t Au including 10 meters @ 1.13 g/t Au (see table 1 below and www.keeganresources.com for a location map). Potential mineralization in the B-1 fault extends to 3 km long as indicated by gold-in-soil and IP anomalies. The B-1 fault trends northeast and thus parallels the A-1 fault, which is the host of the Main Zone). The hole was drilled with small diameter NQ core. Comparison of NQ core and reverse circulation drilling on the resource definition area to date has indicated that the smaller diameter NQ core consistently and materially underestimates the grade relative to reverse circulation drilling. Keegan is currently testing this reconnaissance discovery with a fence of reverse circulation holes to better determine the overall grade, width and strike potential.

 

Table 1. Gold Intercepts from Core Hole 33; the first drilled in the B-1 fault

 

 

 Drillholes

 

from

 
 

to

 
 

width

 
 

grade

 

 KEDD6033

 
 
244
 
 
 
276
 
 
 
32
 
 
 
0.65
 

 including

 
 
255
 
 
 
265
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
1.13
 

 

Dan McCoy, President and CEO of Keegan states: "The discovery of a significant width of gold mineralization on the B-1 zone gives us the opportunity to explore an entirely new zone of potentially bulk mineable mineralization. These results continue to demonstrate the impressive size and strength of the gold mineralizing system on the property."

 

 

Richard Haslinger, P. Eng. is the Qualified Person with respect to NI 43-101 at Esaase. Richard Haslinger, P. Eng. is the Qualified Person with respect to NI 43-101 at Esaase. All core samples are carefully measured, logged and split on site and assayed using standard 50 gram fire assay with atomic absorption finish by Transworld Laboratories (GH) Ltd. in Tarkwa, Ghana. QA/QC programs using internal and external standard samples, re-assays, and blanks indicate good accuracy and precision in a large majority of standards assayed.

 

 

Intercepts were calculated using a minimum of a 0.2 g/t cut off at beginning and end of the intercept and allowing for no more than five consecutive samples (five meters) of less than 0.2 g/t within the intercept. All internal intercepts above 10 g/t Au are reported. Intercepts of less than 5 meters or less than 0.5 g/t Au were not reported.

 

About Keegan Resources Keegan is a junior gold company offering investors the opportunity to share ownership in the rapid exploration and development of high quality, pure gold assets. The Company owns the right to earn 90% of its flagship Esaase and Asumura gold projects located in Ghana, West Africa. Managed by highly skilled and successful board members and advisors, Keegan efficiently executes its project development plans and is well financed with no debt. Keegan is also strongly committed to the highest standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and health and safety for its employees and neighboring communities. Keegan trades on the TSX-VEN under the symbol KGN. More information about Keegan is available at www.keeganresources.com.

 

 

 

 

 

On Behalf of the Board

 

 

Dan McCoy, Ph.D.

President & CEO

 

 

For more information please visit the company website at 

http://www.keeganresources.com or contact investor relations at 

604-683-8193 or info@keeganresources.com.

 

 

The TSX Venture Exchange has not reviewed and does not accept responsibility for the adequacy or the accuracy of this release.

 

 

This release includes certain statements that may be deemed forward-looking statements. All statements in this release, other than statements of historical facts, that address future production, reserve potential, exploration drilling, exploitation activities and events or developments that the Company expects are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include market prices, exploitation and exploration successes, continued availability of capital and financing, and general economic, market or business conditions. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and those actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. For more information on the Company, Investors should review the Company's filings that are available at www.sedar.com.