EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc.: Exhibit 99.1- Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
ASANKO GOLD PUBLISHES
2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Vancouver, British Columbia, May 7, 2018 – Asanko Gold Inc.
(“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE American: AKG) today publishes its 2017 Corporate
Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Report, which provides a detailed review of
Asanko’s CSR strategy and performance during the year, including its
contribution to both the local communities in which it operates and its host
country, Ghana. 
Peter Breese, President and CEO, said “We believe genuine
sharing of the benefits generated by the mine is key to supporting economic
development and growth in our local communities and host country, ultimately
underpinning the future success of our business.
In 2017, we expanded the involvement of indigenous companies
in our operations and awarded the open pit mining contracts for the Akwasiso and
Dynamite Hill satellite deposits to locally-based companies, Thonket and
Rocksure respectively. As a result, we now have Ghanaian businesses involved in
every aspect of our mine, from mining contractors through to key supplies,
power, fuel, to catering and transport. 99% of our workforce is Ghanaian, of
which 37% are from the local communities surrounding the mine. 
In 2017 our economic contribution to Ghana was just over
$255 million, supporting 277 Ghanaian businesses, 78 of which are from the
Ashanti region where the mine is located, with the purchase of goods and
services valued at $167 million.” 
To learn more about Asanko’s CSR activities, please view the
2017 CSR Report on the Company’s website: www.asanko.com. 
Enquiries: For further information please visit:
www.asanko.com, email: info@asanko.com
or contact: 
Alex Buck - Manager, Investor and Media Relations Toll-Free
(N.America): 1-855-246-7341 Telephone: +44-7932-740-452 Email: alex.buck@asanko.com 
About Asanko Gold Inc. 
Asanko’s vision is to become a mid-tier gold mining company
that maximizes value for all its stakeholders. The Company’s flagship project is
the multi-million ounce Asanko Gold Mine located in Ghana, West Africa.
Asanko is managed by highly skilled and successful technical,
operational and financial professionals. The Company is strongly committed to
the highest standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and
health and safety for its employees and neighbouring communities. 
Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or
accuracy of this release.