EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 

ASANKO GOLD PROVIDES UPDATE ON ESAASE PROJECT 
Vancouver, British
Columbia, February 1, 2019 – Asanko Gold Inc. ("Asanko" or the "Company") (TSX,
NYSE American: AKG) is pleased to provide an update on the development
of the Esaase Project, which forms part of the multi-pit Asanko Gold Mine (the
"AGM"), located in Ghana, West Africa. The AGM is a
50:50 joint venture ("JV") with Gold Fields Ltd (JSE, NYSE: GFI) which is
managed and operated by Asanko.
Highlights: 

 Successful completion of Esaase bulk sampling in Q4 2018 

 Trial mining operations at Esaase commenced in January 2019, as planned 

 Mined 95,899 tonnes @ 1.2 g/t in January 2019 @ 0.5g/t cut off grade 

 Development decision by JV partners to proceed with Esaase development expected Q2 2019 

 Updated NI 43-101 expected in Q2 2019 
 
Commenting on the update, Peter Breese, President and CEO, said “The
large-scale Esaase deposit provides an exciting near-term organic growth
opportunity for the business. Ahead of a decision by the JV partners on the
full-scale development plan in Q2 2019, it was appropriate to undertake a bulk
sampling and trial mining operation and use the production and technical data to
augment the updated Life of Mine plan. We are very encouraged by the
results from the bulk sample and the trial mining so far, with the oxides
performing well in the mill, throughput is exceeding expectations and gold
recovery is in line with current levels experienced from other feed
sources.”
Trial Mining Operation Esaase
is a large-scale permitted greenfields deposit located approximately 27
kilometres from the processing facility. A bulk sample was mined and processed
through the central processing facility during Q4 2018, with the Esaase material
performing above expectations. The trial mining operation, which commenced in
January 2019 and will continue until end of June 2019, is focused on mining the
surface oxides of the deposit. Mining is restricted to day shift only, with
minimal blasting, and the material is being trucked to the processing facility
via the newly commissioned haul road. 
Mining rates are expected to approximate 350,000 - 400,000
tonnes per month during this period. Pre-production capital is estimated at
US$18 million, of which US$11 million has been spent up to December 2018, and
consists of initial infrastructure, mobilization of the mining contractor,
initial mining works and the construction of a section of haul road to connect
Esaase to the existing AGM haul road network. 
Esaase Long-Term Development Plan In 2017, Asanko published a Definitive Feasibility Study for the AGM,
which included the development of Esaase and envisaged an overland conveyor to
transport the ore from Esaase to the processing facility as part of the Project
5 Million ("P5M") growth project. The Esaase mine, overland conveyor and the
haul road are permitted.

Following the JV transaction with Gold Fields, which
was concluded in July 2018, the JV partners undertook a detailed review of the
proposed Esaase development plan and associated long-term ore transportation
solution. This included a program of in-fill reverse circulation drilling and
re-logging of historical core which has helped to better understand the
geological controls to mineralization. All the new data is being compiled into
updated Mineral Resource and Reserve Estimates.
In addition, other technical aspects such as the
geotechnical, hydrogeological and metallurgical design parameters have also been
re-evaluated, incorporating recent production data from the bulk sampling and
trial mining operation. This, together with the updated Mineral Resource and
Reserve Estimates, will result in an updated Life of Mine plan that will confirm
the optimal ore transportation solution and associated capital cost that will
form the basis of the 2019 long term development plan for Esaase. This will be
presented to the JV partners for a development decision in Q2 2019.
Qualified Person Statement 
 Frederik Fourie, Asanko Senior Mining Engineer (Pr.Eng) is the Asanko Qualified Person, as defined by Canadian National Instrument 43-101 (Standards 
of Mineral Disclosure), who has approved the preparation of the technical contents of this news release. 
Enquiries: For further information please visit: www.asanko.com, email: info@asanko.com or contact:

 
 Alex Buck – Manager, Investor & Media Relations 
 
 Andrew J. Ramcharan – SVP, Corporate Development & IR 
 
 
 Toll-Free (N.America): 1-855-246-7341 
 Toll-Free (N.America): 1-855-246-7341 
 
 Telephone: +44-7932-740-452 
 Telephone: +1 647 309 5130 
 
 Email: alex.buck@asanko.com 
 Email: andrew.ramcharan@asanko.com 
 
About Asanko Gold Inc. 
Asanko’s vision is to become a mid-tier gold mining company that
maximizes value for all its stakeholders. The Company’s flagship project,
located in Ghana, West Africa, is the jointly owned Asanko Gold Mine with Gold
Fields Ltd, which Asanko manages and operates. Asanko is managed by highly
skilled and successful technical, operational and financial professionals. The
Company is strongly committed to the highest standards for environmental
management, social responsibility, and health and safety for its employees and
neighbouring communities.
Forward-Looking and other Cautionary Information 
This release includes certain statements that may be
deemed "forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than
statements of historical facts, that address the planned operations are
forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the forward-looking
statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements should not be in
any way construed as guarantees of future performance and actual results or
developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in
forward-looking statements include market prices for metals, the conclusions of
detailed feasibility and technical analyses, the timely renewal of key permits,
lower than expected grades and quantities of resources, mining rates and
recovery rates and the lack of availability of necessary capital, which may not
be available to the Company on terms acceptable to it or at all. The Company is
subject to the specific risks inherent in the mining business as well as general
economic and business conditions. For more information on the Company, Investors
should review the Company's Annual Form 40-F filing with the United States
Securities Commission and its home jurisdiction filings that are available at www.sedar.com.

Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the
adequacy or accuracy of this release.