EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 

ASANKO GOLD ANNOUNCES Q3 2019 PRODUCTION
RESULTS
Vancouver, British Columbia, October 17, 2019 – Asanko Gold
Inc. (“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE American: AKG) is pleased to
announce production results for the third quarter (“Q3”) 2019 from the Asanko
Gold Mine (“AGM”), located in Ghana, West Africa. The AGM is a 50:50 joint
venture (“JV”) with Gold Fields Ltd (JSE, NYSE: GFI) which is managed and
operated by Asanko.
AGM Q3 Highlights (100% basis):

 
 • 
 
 Record proceeds of $91.0 million generated from gold
 sales of 63,009 ounces at an average realized price of $1,443 per ounce
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Record gold production of 62,440 ounces, on track to meet
 2019 production guidance of 225,000 - 245,000 ounces 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Mined 1.11 million tonnes (“Mt”) of ore, including 0.62Mt
 of ore from the Esaase pit 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Processed record 1.44Mt of ore with an average gold grade
 of 1.4 grams per tonne (“g/t”) 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Continued strong safety performance with no lost time or
 recordable injuries during the quarter 
“The Asanko Gold Mine continued to deliver strong
operational performance during the quarter with record quarterly production and
revenue,” said Greg McCunn, Chief Executive Officer. “During the third quarter
we substantially completed the Cut 2 pushback at the Nkran pit concluding a
significant capital program that allows the mine to focus on generating
meaningful free cash flow. Increased free cash flow will continue to strengthen
the balance sheet at both the corporate and Joint Venture level. At the
corporate level, during the third quarter we received $10 million from our JV
partner pursuant to the Joint Venture Transaction and we expect to receive a
further $10 million on or before December 31, 2019, significantly bolstering our
corporate balance sheet.”
Health and SafetyThere were no lost time injuries
(“LTI”) reported during the quarter. As at September 30, 2019, the mine achieved
over 30 months without an LTI. The were also no recordable injuries during the
quarter.
Production In Q3, the AGM sourced ore from the
Nkran, Esaase and Dynamite Hill pits as well as ore stockpiles. At Nkran, waste
mining operations substantially concluded the final stage of the western portion
of the Cut 2 pushback. During the quarter, 4.71Mt of waste and 0.32Mt of ore at
an average gold grade of 1.8 g/t were mined from the Nkran pit. The Esaase pit
delivered 0.62Mt of ore at an average gold grade of 1.3g/t with 1.53Mt of waste
mined. Dynamite Hill delivered 0.17Mt of ore at a gold grade of 0.8 g/t with
0.13Mt of waste mined. 
The processing plant milled 1.44Mt at a gold grade of 1.4 g/t
during the quarter with metallurgical recovery averaging 94%. 

Preliminary CostsPreliminary operating cost
estimates for the AGM during the quarter are provided with final operating costs
to be released in conjunction with the Q3 2019 Interim Financial Statements and
Management Discussion & Analysis on or about November 7, 2019. Preliminary
operating cash costs per ounce1 were $799, preliminary total cash
costs per ounce1 were $872, and preliminary all-in sustaining costs
per gold ounce1 (or “AISC”) were $1,179 in Q3 2019. Although Q3 2019
AISC were higher than the 2019 annual cost guidance of $1,040 - $1,060/oz,
management forecasts a reduction in AISC in Q4 2019 as waste mining on Cut 2 at
Nkran was nearing completion during the quarter. During Q3, capitalized
stripping costs associated with Cut 2 at Nkran amounted to $162/oz. In early Q4,
capitalized stripping is expected to be complete, resulting in substantially
lower AISC.

 
 AGM Key Production Statistics
 (100% basis) 
 Units 
 Q3 2019 
 Q2 2019 
 Q1 2019 
 Q4 2018 
 
 Total Tonnes Mined 
 000 t 
 7,477 
 8,864 
 8,088 
 9,740 
 
 Waste Tonnes Mined 
 000 t 
 6,372 
 7,808 
 6,584 
 8,370 
 
 Ore Tonnes Mined 
 000 t 
 1,105 
 1,056 
 1,505 
 1,370 
 
 Strip Ratio 
 W:O 
 5.8:1 
 7.4:1 
 4.4:1 
 6.1:1 
 
 Average Gold Grade Mined 
 g/t 
 1.5 
 1.6 
 1.4 
 1.5 
 
 Ore Treated 
 000 t 
 1,439 
 1,375 
 1,224 
 1,238 
 
 Gold Feed Grade 
 g/t 
 1.4 
 1.5 
 1.6 
 1.6 
 
 Gold Recovery 
 % 
 94 
 93 
 93 
 95 
 
 Gold Produced 
 oz 
 62,440 
 62,067 
 60,425 
 59,823 
Sales and LiquidityGold production for the quarter
totalled 62,440 ounces with gold sales of 63,009 ounces at an average realized
price of US$1,443 per ounce, generating record gold sales proceeds of $91.0
million for the JV. At the end of the quarter, the JV held approximately $36.6
million in unaudited cash ($3.0 million of which was restricted in favour of a
gold hedging counterparty), $7.0 million in gold receivables and $2.9 million in
dore (with a market value of $3.1 million) 
The Company held $13.6 million in unaudited cash at the quarter
end, and is scheduled to receive a further $10 million in cash related to the JV
transaction on or before December 31, 2019. 
The JV received notification from Rand Merchant Bank confirming
the satisfaction of various conditions precedent associated with a $30 million
revolving credit facility for the JV, which is now available to draw. The
Company and JV have no drawn debt. 
Qualified Person Statement Frederik Fourie, Asanko
Senior Mining Engineer (Pr.Eng) is the Asanko Qualified Person, as defined by
Canadian National Instrument 43-101 (Standards of Mineral Disclosure), who has
approved the preparation of the technical contents of this news release. 
Notes:1 Non-GAAP Performance
Measures 
The Company has included certain non-GAAP performance measures
in this press release. These non-GAAP performance measures do not have any
standardized meaning. Accordingly, these performance measures are intended to
provide additional information and should not be considered in isolation or as a
substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For a
description of the methodology used to calculate these non-GAAP performance measures, see the Non-GAAP
Measures section of Asanko’s previously filed Q2 Management Discussion and
Analysis; reconciliations of these measures to the Company’s financial results
will be reported in accordance with IFRS in the Q3 MD&A to be filed in the
coming weeks. 

 
 
 2 
 

 
 • 
 
 Operating Cash Costs per ounce and Total Cash Costs
 per ounce Operating cash costs are reflective of the cost of
 production, adjusted for share-based payments and by- product revenue per
 ounce of gold sold. Total cash costs include production royalties of 5%.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 All-in Sustaining Costs Per Gold Ounce The
 Company has adopted the reporting of AISC as per the World Gold Council’s
 guidance. AISC include total cash costs, corporate overhead expenses,
 sustaining capital expenditure, capitalized stripping costs and
 reclamation cost accretion per ounce of gold sold. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 All-in Costs Per Gold Ounce The Company has
 adopted the reporting of AIC as per the World Gold Council’s guidance. AIC
 include AISC plus non-sustaining capital and exploration expenditures per
 ounce of gold sold. 

 
 Enquiries: 
 
 Lynette Gould 
 
 SVP Investor Relations 
 
 Toll-Free (N.America): 1-855-246-7341 
 
 Telephone: +1 778 729 0608 
 
 Email: lynette.gould@asanko.com
 
About Asanko Gold Inc. Asanko is focused on building
a low-cost, mid-tier gold mining company through organic production growth,
exploration and disciplined deployment of its financial resources. The company
currently operates and manages the Asanko Gold Mine, located in Ghana, West
Africa which is jointly owned with Gold Fields Ltd. The Company is strongly
committed to the highest standards for environmental management, social
responsibility, and health and safety for its employees and neighbouring
communities. For more information, please visit www.asanko.com. 
Forward-Looking and other Cautionary Information
Certain statements and information contained in this news release
constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable U.S.
securities laws and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of
applicable Canadian securities laws, which we refer to collectively as
“forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements are statements and
information regarding possible events, conditions or results of operations that
are based upon assumptions about future conditions and courses of action. All
statements and information other than statements of historical fact may be
forward looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be
identified by the use of words such as “seek”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “budget”,
“plan”, “estimate”, “continue”, “forecast”, “intend”, “believe”, “predict”,
“potential”, “target”, “may”, “could”, “would”, “might”, “will” and similar
words or phrases (including negative variations) suggesting future outcomes or
statements regarding an outlook. 
Forward-looking statements in this news release include, but
are not limited to: estimates of the amount of gold production from AGM in 2019;
statements in respect of AGM’s generation of free cash flow; Asanko’s receipt of
$10 million from Gold Fields Ltd. on or before December 31, 2019; statements in
respect of the future strength of Asanko’s balance sheet; and cost estimates,
including that Asanko’s AISC and stripping costs related to AGM will be reduced
in Q4 2019. Such forward-looking statements are based on a number of material
factors and assumptions, including, but not limited to: the accuracy of reserve
and resource, grade, mine life, cash cost, net present value, internal rate of
return and production and processing estimates and other assumptions,
projections and estimates made in the technical reports for the AGM or in
respect of AGM; the successful completion of development and exploration
projects, planned expansions or other projects within the timelines anticipated
and at anticipated production levels; that mineral resources can be developed as
planned; that the Company’s relationship with joint venture partners will
continue to be positive and beneficial to the Company; interest and exchange
rates; that required financing and permits will be obtained; general economic
conditions; that labour disputes or disruptions, flooding, ground instability,
geotechnical failure, fire, failure of plant, equipment or processes to operate
are as anticipated and other risks of the mining industry will not be
encountered; that contracted parties provide goods or services in a timely
manner; that there is no material adverse change in the price of gold or other
metals; competitive conditions in the mining industry; title to mineral
properties; costs; taxes; the retention of the Company’s key personnel; and
changes in laws, rules and regulations applicable to Asanko.

 
 
 3
 

Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or
achievements to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking
statements. The Company believes the expectations reflected in such
forward-looking statements are reasonable, but no assurance can be given that
these expectations will prove to be correct and you are cautioned not to place
undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained herein. Some of the risks
and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from
those expressed in the forward-looking statements contained in this news
release, include, but are not limited to: mineral reserve and resource estimates
may change and may prove to be inaccurate; life of mine estimates are based on a
number of factors and assumptions and may prove to be incorrect; AGM has a
limited operating history and is subject to risks associated with establishing
new mining operations; sustained increases in costs, or decreases in the
availability, of commodities consumed or otherwise used by the Company may
adversely affect the Company; actual production, costs, returns and other
economic and financial performance may vary from the Company’s estimates in
response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within the Company’s
control; adverse geotechnical and geological conditions (including geotechnical
failures) may result in operating delays and lower throughput or recovery,
closures or damage to mine infrastructure; the ability of the Company to treat
the number of tonnes planned, recover valuable materials, remove deleterious
materials and process ore, concentrate and tailings as planned is dependent on a
number of factors and assumptions which may not be present or occur as expected;
the Company’s operations may encounter delays in or losses of production due to
equipment delays or the availability of equipment; the Company’s operations are
subject to continuously evolving legislation, compliance with which may be
difficult, uneconomic or require significant expenditures; the Company may be
unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key personnel; labour disruptions could
adversely affect the Company’s operations; the Company’s business is subject to
risks associated with operating in a foreign country; risks related to the
Company’s use of contractors; the hazards and risks normally encountered in the
exploration, development and production of gold; the Company’s operations are
subject to environmental hazards and compliance with applicable environmental
laws and regulations; the Company’s operations and workforce are exposed to
health and safety risks; unexpected costs and delays related to, or the failure
of the Company to obtain, necessary permits could impede the Company’s
operations; the Company’s title to exploration, development and mining interests
can be uncertain and may be contested; the Company’s properties may be subject
to claims by various community stakeholders; risks related to limited access to
infrastructure and water; the Company’s exploration programs may not
successfully expand its current mineral reserves or replace them with new
reserves; the Company’s common shares may experience price and trading volume
volatility; the Company’s revenues are dependent on the market prices for gold,
which have experienced significant recent fluctuations; the Company may not be
able to secure additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms; Company
shareholders may be subject to future dilution; risks related to changes in
interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; changes to taxation laws
applicable to the Company may affect the Company’s profitability and ability to
repatriate funds; the Company’s primary asset is held through a joint venture,
which exposes the Company to risks inherent to joint ventures, including
disagreements with joint venture partners and similar risks; risks related to
the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and compliance with
applicable accounting regulations and securities laws; the carrying value of the
Company’s assets may change and these assets may be subject to impairment
charges; the Company may be liable for uninsured or partially insured losses;
the Company may be subject to litigation; the Company may be unsuccessful in
identifying targets for acquisition or completing suitable corporate
transactions, and any such transactions may not be beneficial to the Company or
its shareholders; the Company must compete with other mining companies and
individuals for mining interests; and risks related to information systems
security threats. 
Although the Company has attempted to identify important
factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from
those described in the forward-looking statements, you are cautioned that this
list is not exhaustive and there may be other factors that the Company has not
identified. Furthermore, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or
revise any forward-looking statements included in, or incorporated by reference
in, this news release if these beliefs, estimates and opinions or other
circumstances should change, except as otherwise required by applicable law.

Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or
accuracy of this release. 
Source: Asanko Gold Inc. 

 
 
 4