EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

ASANKO GOLD ANNOUNCES FILING OF
PRELIMINARYBASE SHELF PROSPECTUS 
Vancouver, British Columbia, December 29, 2017 – Asanko Gold
Inc. (“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE American: AKG) announces that it
has filed a preliminary short form base shelf prospectus with the securities
commissions in all the provinces of Canada, except Quebec, and a corresponding
shelf registration statement on Form F-10 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC") under the U.S./Canada Multijurisdictional Disclosure
System. 
The base shelf prospectus and corresponding shelf registration
statement, when made final and effective, will allow Asanko to offer up to
US$300,000,000 of common shares, warrants, subscription receipts, debt
securities and units, or any combination thereof, from time to time over a
25-month period. The specific terms of any offering of securities, including the
use of proceeds from any offering, will be set forth in a shelf prospectus
supplement. The Company has filed this base shelf prospectus in order to provide
the Company with greater financial flexibility going forward but has not entered
into any agreements or arrangements to authorize or offer any securities at this
time. 
The shelf registration statement filed today with the SEC has
not yet become effective. No securities may be sold, nor may offers to buy be
accepted, prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. This
news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer
to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in
which an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or
qualifications under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. 
A copy of the preliminary short form base shelf prospectus can
be found on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
Enquiries: For further information please visit:
www.asanko.com, email: info@asanko.com
or contact: 
Alex Buck - Manager, Investor and Media Relations Toll-Free
(N.America): 1-855-246-7341 Telephone: +44-7932-740-452 Email: alex.buck@asanko.com 
Rob Slater – Executive, Corporate Development and Strategy
Telephone: +27-11-467-2758 Email: rob.slater@asanko.com 
About Asanko Gold Inc. 
Asanko’s vision is to become a mid-tier gold mining company
that maximizes value for all its stakeholders. The Company’s flagship project is
the multi-million ounce Asanko Gold Mine located in Ghana, West Africa.
Asanko is managed by highly skilled and successful technical,
operational and financial professionals. The Company is strongly committed to
the highest standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and
health and safety for its employees and neighbouring communities. 

Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.