EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 

 
 Notice of Annual General &
 Special Meeting of Shareholders and 
 
 Availability of Proxy Materials
 
 
 
 
 
MEETING DATE AND LOCATION

 
 Meeting Type: 
 Annual General and Special Meeting of
 Shareholders (the “Meeting”) 
 
 
 
 
 When: 
 June 9, 2017 at 2:00 p.m. (Vancouver Time)
 
 
 
 
 
 Where: 
 Suite 1500 – 1055 West Georgia Street,
 Vancouver, British Columbia, V6E 4N7 
BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

 
 1. 
 
 To set the number of directors at seven (7) (see
 “Election of Directors” in the Circular);
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 To elect the directors of the Company for the ensuing
 year (see “Election of Directors” in the Circular);
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 To appoint KPMG LLP, Chartered Accountants, as Auditors
 of the Company for the ensuing year, and to authorize the directors to fix
 their remuneration (see “Appointment of Auditor” in the
 Circular);
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 To pass the ordinary resolution to approve all amendments
 made to section 2.8 – Terms or Amendments Requiring Disinterested
 Shareholder Approval of the Company’s incentive Share Option Plan
 dated for reference September 27, 2011, such amendments being approved by
 the Board of Directors on May 2, 2017, and as more particularly described
 in the Circular (see “Particulars of Matters to be Acted Upon” in
 the Circular); and
 
 
 
 
 5. 
 
 To pass the ordinary resolution to approve continuation
 of the Company’s incentive Share Option Plan dated for reference September
 27, 2011, as amended May 2, 2017, for a further three year period, as more
 particularly described in the Circular, and to approve any unallocated
 options available thereunder (see “Particulars of Matters to be Acted
 Upon” in the Circular).
NOTICE-AND-ACCESS 
Asanko Gold Inc. (“Asanko” or the “Company”) is
using the notice-and-access model for delivery of meeting materials to
shareholders of common shares of Asanko (“Shareholders”). Under
notice-and-access, Shareholders still receive a proxy for registered
Shareholders or voting instruction form for non-registered (beneficial)
Shareholders enabling them to vote at the Meeting. However, instead of a paper
copy of the Company’s management information circular dated April 28, 2017 (the
“Circular”), Shareholders receive this notice with information on how
they may access such materials electronically. The use of this alternative means
of delivery contributes to the protection of the environment by reducing tree,
water and energy consumption, and will reduce the cost of printing and mailing
materials to Shareholders. 
Therefore, instead of receiving the Circular by mail, you
may view it electronically by visiting www.asanko.com/Investors/AGM-Materials or
the Company’s SEDAR profile at www.sedar.com. 
HOW DO I OBTAIN A PRINTED COPY OF THE
CIRCULAR? 
Should you wish to receive paper copies of the Circular or have
any questions related to this meeting, please contact Asanko at info@asanko.com,
or by phone at 604-683-8193 or 1-855-246-7341. 
If you request materials before the Meeting, the Circular will
be sent to you at no charge within 3 business days of receiving your request. To
receive the Circular before the voting deadline for the Meeting of 2:00 p.m.
(Pacific Time) on Wednesday, June 7, 2017, your request must be received no
later than Wednesday, May 24, 2017. Please note that you will not receive
another form of proxy or voting instruction form, so please keep the one you
received with this notice.
If you request materials on the date of the Meeting or in the
year following the filing of the Circular, it will be sent to you within 10
calendar days of receiving your request. Following the Meeting, the documents
will remain available at the websites listed above for a period of at least one
year. 

VOTING IS SIMPLE. PLEASE VOTE TODAY.

WHO CAN VOTE?

Holders of common shares of Asanko on the record date of April
28, 2017 are entitled to receive notice and to vote at the Meeting. 
HOW DO I VOTE? 
There are several convenient ways to vote your shares including
online and via telephone. You will find attached to this notice a form of proxy
or a voting instruction form containing detailed instructions on how to exercise
your voting rights.

 
 
 Beneficial Shareholders 
 Registered Shareholders 
 
 
 
 Shares held with a broker, bank or other
 
 Shares held in own name and represented by a
 
 
 
 
 intermediary. 
 physical certificate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Internet: 
 www.proxyvote.com 
 www.investorvote.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Phone or Fax: 
 Call or fax to the number(s) listed on your
 voting instruction form and vote using the control number provided
 therein. 
 Phone: 1-866-732-8683 Fax: 1-866-249-7775
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mail: 
 Return the voting instruction form in the
 enclosed 
 Return the form of proxy in the enclosed postage
 
 
 
 postage paid envelope. 
 paid envelope. 
If you wish to attend and vote at the Meeting, please follow
the instructions found in the enclosed form of proxy or voting instruction form.
You are reminded to view the Meeting materials prior to voting. 
Please submit your vote well in advance
of the proxy deposit deadline on June 7, 2017 at
2:00 p.m. (Vancouver Time).
BOARD RECOMMENDATION 
The Board of Directors of Asanko unanimously recommends that
Shareholders VOTE FOR of all the proposed resolutions. 
By order of the Board, 
/s/ Peter Breese 
Peter Breese President and Chief Executive Officer
May 2, 2017 

 
 If you have questions or require assistance with voting,
 please contact Asanko’s proxy solicitation agent: 
 
 
 
 
 Laurel Hill Advisory Group 
 
 North American Toll-Free Number: 1-877-452-7184 
 
 Collect Calls Outside North America: 416-304-0211
 
 
 Email: assistance@laurelhill.com 
2