EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
ASANKO GOLD TO RELEASE EXPANDED MINE FEASIBILITY REPORT; 
 REFUTES
MUDDY WATERS SHORT REPORT 
Vancouver, British Columbia, May 31, 2017 – Asanko Gold Inc.
(“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE MKT: AKG) today reiterated prior
disclosure regarding the strength of its gold mining business and pipeline of
growth projects and strongly advised shareholders to disregard a short report
issued today.
Asanko received a copy of the report, issued by short-seller
Muddy Waters LLC. Asanko states that there is no merit to the negative
assertions about Asanko in the report.
Asanko reaffirmed plans for a June 5, 2017 release of its
Expansion Definitive Feasibility Study that details the Company’s organic growth
pipeline and confirms the strong cash generating capability of an expanded
Asanko Gold Mine. The study was prepared by internationally recognized
independent Qualified Persons as required under Canadian securities laws.
“The Asanko Gold Mine is a robust business and we look forward
to showcasing this during our June 5th presentation,” said Peter
Breese, President and CEO. “The side wall issue was previously disclosed and has
not materially impacted our ability to operate. We maintain our production
guidance of 230,000-240,000 ounces for 2017, which we continue to expect will
generate between US$64-US$77 million in cash this year assuming $1,200/oz gold.
The short report has no merit and our upcoming Expansion Definitive Feasibility
Study will by itself provide a complete rebuttal to Muddy Water’s technical
claims and will also make other information available to refute the
non-technical allegations.” 
Importantly, Asanko notes the following: 

 
 As previously disclosed in our Management Discussion and Analysis dated May
 2, 2017, there was no impact on either production or safety resulting from a
 partial failure on the western wall of the Nkran pit. Asanko has put various
 mitigation measures in place as part of its original mine plan. These
 mitigation measures include a dual ramp system, a slope stability radar and an
 on-surface ore stockpile in excess of 1.5 million tonnes, all of which have
 been instrumental in maintaining production. There is no merit to claims to
 the contrary by the short seller. 
 
 As previously disclosed in our Management Discussion and Analysis dated May
 2, 2017, the current pit bottom contains an inventory of pre-developed ore
 reserves of 166,000 ounces of gold based on the new resource model by the
 mining consultant CSA Global. This inventory will enable Nkran to meet its
 production plan through to the first quarter of 2018. During this period
 Asanko is continuing with the mining of its scheduled pushback on the Western
 limb of the pit, which will facilitate continuous areas of ore supply into the
 future in line with Nkran’s life of mine plan. Accordingly, there is no need
 for a $115 million pushback expense, as speculated by Muddy Waters. 
 
 Asanko’s President and CEO Peter Breese and Chairman Colin Steyn have
 regularly purchased Asanko shares and have not sold any Asanko shares. The
 2015 transaction referred to in the Muddy Waters report was nothing more than
 a change of indirect to direct holdings amongst shareholders within a private
 company. 
 

As previously disclosed, Asanko intends to provide a detailed
presentation to analysts and investors immediately following the disclosure of
the Expansion Definitive Feasibility Study. The presentation is scheduled to
take place in Toronto at 8:00 a.m. on Monday, June 5, 2017. There will also be
an accompanying conference call and webcast so that all investors can attend in
real time. Details below. 
Toronto Presentation 
 Monday, June 5, 2017 at 8:00 am EDT
 Belgravia Room, Omni King
Edward Hotel 
To attend, please arrive by 7.45am and RSVP to
alex.buck@asanko.com 

 
 Conference Call & Webcast Details:
 
 
 Monday, June 5, 2017 at 
 8:00 am EDT 
 
 US/Canada Toll Free: 
 1 888 225 8011 
 
 UK Toll Free: 
 0800 496 1093 
 
 International: 
 +1 303 223 4384 
Webcast: 
Please click on the link:
https://cc.callinfo.com/r/183fpsaijbtsj&eom 

 
 Replay 
 
 
 A recorded playback will be available
 approximately two hours after the call until July 4, 2017: 
 
 US/Canada Toll Free: 
 1 800 558 5253 
 
 International: 
 +1 416 626 4100 
 
 Passcode: 
 21852384 
Enquiries: For further information please visit:
www.asanko.com, email: info@asanko.com or contact: 
Alex Buck - Manager, Investor and Media Relations Toll-Free
(N.America): 1-855-246-7341 Telephone: +44-7932-740-452 Email:
alex.buck@asanko.com 
Ryan Walchuck, VP Corporate Development and Investor Relations
Telephone: +1-778-986-2000 Email: ryan.walchuck@asanko.com 
Qualified Persons StatementsFrederik Fourie, Asanko
Senior Mining Engineer (Pr.Eng.)who is the Asanko Qualified Person under NI
43-101 who assumes responsibility for the technical contents of this news
release. 
Forward-Looking and other Cautionary Information
This release includes certain statements that may be deemed
"forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than
statements of historical facts, that address estimated resource quantities,
grades and contained metals, possible future mining, exploration and development
activities, are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements
should not be in any way construed as guarantees of future performance and
actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those in forward-looking statements include market prices for
metals, the conclusions of detailed feasibility and technical analyses, the
timely renewal of key permits, lower than expected grades and quantities of
resources, mining rates and recovery rates and the lack of availability of
necessary capital, which may not be available to the Company on terms acceptable
to it or at all. The Company is subject to the specific risks inherent in the
mining business as well as general economic and business conditions. For more
information on the Company, Investors should review the Company's Annual Form 40-F filing with the United States Securities
Commission and its home jurisdiction filings that are available at www.sedar.com. 
 

Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or
accuracy of this release.