EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

ASANKO GOLD FAST TRACKS MINING AT AKWASISO

Highlights: 

 
 Akwasiso to be fast tracked ahead of Dynamite Hill and will commence ore
 mining in June 2017, following approval by the Ghanaian Regulatory Authorities
 
 
 Decision to fast track mining of Akwasiso driven by its proximity to the
 processing facility, lower capital entry costs and higher oxide volumes which
 can be mined and processed at lower costs than current Nkran operations 
 
 Dynamite Hill re-scheduled to commence mining in Q1 2018, in line with the
 original Akwasiso timing 
 
 Environmental Permits received for Dynamite Hill, Nkran Extension and
 Adubiaso Extension 
 
 Expansion Definitive Feasibility Study nearing completion and will be
 published on June 5, 2017, along with updated life of mine plan for all 11
 pits comprising the Asanko Gold Mine complex 
Vancouver, British Columbia, May 23, 2017 – Asanko Gold Inc.
(“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE MKT: AKG) is pleased to announce the
commencement of mining operations at the Akwasiso deposit, part of the Asanko
Gold Mine (“AGM”), located in Ghana, West Africa, following approval by the
Ghanaian Regulatory Authorities to commence mining. 
The decision to accelerate the mining of Akwasiso ahead of
Dynamite Hill is due to receipt of regulatory approval and follows the recent
successful completion of an in-fill drill program that substantially increased
Measured Reserves by 62% to 214,500 contained ounces of gold. In addition, the
deposit is four kilometres closer to the processing facility thereby reducing
transport costs and site establishment costs as well as being higher grade and
larger than Dynamite Hill, enabling greater mining flexibility. 
Located approximately three kilometres north east of the
processing facility, Akwasiso is the largest satellite deposit and being at
surface requires minimal pre-strip or development work. Mining operations will
focus initially on the oxide ore, which will augment the ore feed to the
existing processing facility as the volumetric upgrades come online as part of
the Project 5 Million (“P5M”) upgrade to 5Mtpa. In line with our Corporate
Social Responsibility strategy, the mining contract has been awarded to a local
Ghanaian mining contractor who has been mobilized with both road and site
preparations already underway. First ore is expected to be fed to the plant in
June 2017. Dynamite Hill has now been re-scheduled to commence mining in Q1
2018, in line with the original Akwasiso timing. 
Full details of the mining rates, grades and strip ratio for
Akwasiso will be included in the updated life of mine plan, which will be
published as part of the Expansion Definitive Feasibility Study which will be
released on June 5, 2017. 

Peter Breese, President and CEO, commented “With the
successful in-fill drill program completed and timely approval from the
regulatory authorities, it made perfect sense to accelerate Akwasiso ahead of
Dynamite Hill given its proximity to the plant, lower capital costs and that it
is a larger and higher grade deposit than Dynamite Hill. The local mining
contractor has already mobilized to site with road construction and site
preparation at an advanced stage. First ore from Akwasiso is due in June 2017
and we expect the mining and processing costs of this ore to be considerably
cheaper than the current hard rock operations at Nkran. 
We continue to see 2017 as a year of two halves with the
true benefit of Akwasiso to be realized in H2 as we leverage the benefits of
Akwasiso’s oxide material through the volumetric upgrades in the processing
facility that are tracking well ahead of schedule.” 
Asanko is also pleased to announce that the Ghanaian
Environmental Protection Agency has issued the Environmental Permits for
Dynamite Hill, Nkran Extension and Adubiaso Extension. Receipt of these permits
completes the permitting process for these satellite deposits, which are now
ready for mining operations. 
Enquiries: For further information please visit:
www.asanko.com, email: info@asanko.com or contact: 

Alex Buck - Manager, Investor and Media Relations Toll-Free
(N.America): 1-855-246-7341 Telephone: +44-7932-740-452 Email:
alex.buck@asanko.com 
Ryan Walchuck - VP Corporate Development and Investor Relations
Telephone: +1 778 986-2000 Email: ryan.walchuck@asanko.com 
About Asanko Gold Inc. Asanko’s vision is to become
a mid-tier gold mining company that maximizes value for all its stakeholders.
The Company’s flagship project is the multi-million ounce Asanko Gold Mine
located in Ghana, West Africa. The mine is being developed in phases. Phase 1
commenced gold production in January 2016 and declared commercial production on
April 1, 2016. Ramp-up to steady state production was achieved in Q2 2016. 
Asanko is managed by highly skilled and successful technical,
operational and financial professionals. The Company is strongly committed to
the highest standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and
health and safety for its employees and neighbouring communities. 
Forward-Looking and other Cautionary Information
This release includes certain statements that may be deemed
"forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than
statements of historical facts, that address estimated resource quantities,
grades and contained metals, possible future mining, exploration and development
activities, are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements
should not be in any way construed as guarantees of future performance and
actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those in forward-looking statements include market prices for
metals, the conclusions of detailed feasibility and technical analyses, the
timely renewal of key permits, lower than expected grades and quantities of
resources, mining rates and recovery rates and the lack of availability of
necessary capital, which may not be available to the Company
on terms acceptable to it or at all. The Company is subject to the specific
risks inherent in the mining business as well as general economic and business
conditions. For more information on the Company, Investors should review the
Company's Annual Form 40-F filing with the United States Securities Commission
and its home jurisdiction filings that are available at www.sedar.com. 
2

Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or
accuracy of this release. 
Cautionary Note to US Investors Regarding Mineral Reporting
Standards: Asanko has prepared its disclosure in accordance with the
requirements of securities laws in effect in Canada, which differ from the
requirements of US securities laws. Terms relating to mineral resources in this
press release are defined in accordance with National Instrument 43-101 -
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects under the guidelines set out in the
Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy, and Petroleum Standards on Mineral
Resources and Mineral Reserves. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”) permits mining companies, in their filings with the
SEC, to disclose only those mineral deposits that a company can economically and
legally extract or produce. Asanko uses certain terms, such as, “measured
mineral resources”, “indicated mineral resources”, “inferred mineral resources”
and “probable mineral reserves”, that the SEC does not recognize (these terms
may be used in this press release and are included in the public filings of
Asanko which have been filed with securities commissions or similar authorities
in Canada). 
3