EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Asanko Gold Inc. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 

ASANKO GOLD STRENGTHENS BALANCE SHEET
Vancouver, British Columbia, September 5, 2019 – Asanko Gold
Inc. (“Asanko” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE American: AKG) is pleased to
announce that it has received $10 million from its joint venture partner Gold
Fields Limited (“Gold Fields”). Asanko and Gold Fields completed a Joint Venture
Agreement on July 31, 2018 whereby they became 50:50 joint venture partners of
the Asanko Gold Mine (“AGM”), located in Ghana, West Africa, which is operated
by Asanko. Part of that agreement included a $20 million cash payment that was
contingent on an Esaase development milestone at the AGM. Following substantial
achievement of that milestone in August 2019, Asanko has now received $10
million with the remaining $10 million to be paid on or before December 31,
2019.
In addition, the Company is in the process of finalizing credit
agreement documentation on behalf of the Asanko Gold Mine Joint Venture with
Rand Merchant Bank (“RMB”) for a new revolving credit facility (the “Facility”
or the “RCF”) in the amount of $30 million. The term of the RCF will be three
years, maturing in September 2022 and will bear interest on a sliding scale of
between LIBOR plus a margin of 4% and LIBOR plus a margin of 3.8% based on
security granted to RMB. Commitment fees in respect of the undrawn portion of
the Facility will be on a similar sliding scale of between 1.4% and 1.33% .
Final closing of the facility remains subject to the completion of customary
closing conditions. 
“With the receipt of the first $10 million payment from Gold
Fields, Asanko Gold’s corporate balance sheet is strengthening with no debt and
cash growing” said Greg McCunn, Chief Executive Officer. “With this new low-cost
credit facility being established at the AGM, combined with the existing cash
resources and strong expected operating cash flows, the AGM will have
significant financial flexibility to begin repaying inter-company loans to the
Joint Venture partners, allowing the partners to begin realising a return on
their respective investments.”
As at August 31, 2019 the Company held approximately $14.7
million in cash with working capital of $16.0 million. The Asanko Gold Mine
Joint Venture held approximately $44.6 million in cash, gold bullion and gold
receivables, with no external debt. 

 
 Enquiries: 
 
 Lynette Gould 
 
 SVP Investor Relations 
 
 Toll-Free (N.America): 1-855-246-7341 
 
 Telephone: +1 778 729 0608 
 
 Email: lynette.gould@asanko.com
 
About Asanko Gold Inc. 
Asanko is focused on building a low-cost, mid-tier gold mining
company through organic production growth, exploration and disciplined
deployment of its financial resources. The company currently operates and
manages the Asanko Gold Mine, located in Ghana, West Africa which is jointly
owned with Gold Fields Ltd. The Company is strongly committed to the highest
standards for environmental management, social responsibility, and health and
safety for its employees and neighbouring communities. For more information,
please visit www.asanko.com. 
 

Forward-Looking and other Cautionary Information

This release includes certain statements that may be deemed
"forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than
statements of historical facts, that address estimated or anticipated resource
quantities, grades and contained metals, possible future mining, exploration and
development activities, are forward-looking statements. Although the Company
believes the forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions,
such statements should not be in any way construed as guarantees of future
performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from those
in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include market prices
for metals, the conclusions of detailed feasibility and technical analyses, the
timely renewal of key permits, lower than expected grades and quantities of
resources, mining rates and recovery rates and the lack of availability of
necessary capital, which may not be available to the Company on terms acceptable
to it or at all. The Company is subject to the specific risks inherent in the
mining business as well as general economic and business conditions. For more
information, investors should review the Company's Annual Form 40-F filing with
the United States Securities Commission and its home jurisdiction filings that
are available at www.sedar.com. 
Neither Toronto Stock Exchange nor the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada accepts responsibility for the adequacy or
accuracy of this release.