EX-99.1
2
a50113627_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 
 

 
 
 
 Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Hecla
 Provides Update on Lucky Friday and Announces Hecla’s 2012 Production
 Estimate
 
 

 
 
 COEUR D'ALENE, Idaho--(BUSINESS WIRE)--December 21, 2011--Hecla Mining
 Company (“Hecla”) (NYSE:HL) reports that in order to ensure safe and
 efficient operations for its personnel, Hecla will develop a new haulage
 way to bypass the rock burst that occurred at the Lucky Friday mine near
 Mullan, Idaho, on December 14. Creating the bypass and reestablishing
 mine production is expected to be complete by the end of February 2012.
 
 
 Hecla’s silver output remains within its previous estimates with 2011
 production expected at more than 9 million ounces and cash cost
 estimates remaining unchanged at approximately $1.00 per ounce, net of
 by-products. For 2012, Hecla expects to increase silver production to
 more than 9.5 million ounces including the loss of two months of
 production at the Lucky Friday mine while the bypass is completed.
 
 
 Phil Baker, Hecla’s President and Chief Executive Officer said: “While
 2011 has been a difficult year for Hecla and the Lucky Friday, the
 previous 25 years at the Lucky Friday have been characterized by an
 extraordinary safety record. Looking forward, our goal, which we will
 relentlessly pursue, is to reestablish the same safety and operating
 performance decades into the future. I am happy to report that everyone
 who was injured on December 14 has been released from the hospital and
 is on the road to recovery.”
 
 
 Hecla will not repair the area where the rock burst occurred. Instead,
 Hecla is planning a 750-foot bypass creating a new haulage way, which
 will be a significant distance from where the rock burst occurred and in
 a previously mined area reducing the risk of future rock bursts.
 
 
 Hecla expects that a majority of Lucky Friday employees will stay at the
 mine to work on the bypass or other Lucky Friday projects. Any remaining
 qualified employees will be given the opportunity to work at Hecla’s
 other properties.
 
 
 Hecla closed the mine when the accident occurred on December 14 to
 ensure employee safety, investigate the accident, and evaluate
 alternative plans. Subsequently, the federal Mine Safety and Health
 Administration (“MSHA”) issued an order closing the mine. Hecla is
 working with MSHA to finalize the investigation and lift the closure
 order to start the development of the new haulage way, resume
 construction of the #4 Shaft, and work on other maintenance projects.
 
 
 For up-to-date information and an earlier video message from our
 President and CEO, Phil Baker, please visit Hecla’s homepage of the
 website at www.hecla-mining.com.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Cautionary StatementsStatements made which are not historical
 facts, such as strategies, plans, anticipated payments, litigation
 outcome (including settlement negotiations), production, sales of
 assets, exploration results and plans, costs, and prices or sales
 performance are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “may”,
 “will”, “should”, “expects”, “intends”, “projects”, “believes”,
 “estimates”, “targets”, “anticipates” and similar expressions are used
 to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
 involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
 results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, expected
 or implied. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited
 to, metals price volatility, volatility of metals production and costs,
 environmental and litigation risks, operating risks, project development
 risks, political risks, labor issues, ability to raise financing and
 exploration risks and results. Refer to the company's Form 10-K and 10-Q
 reports for a more detailed discussion of factors that may impact
 expected future results. The company undertakes no obligation and has no
 intention of updating forward-looking statements other than as may be
 required by law.
 
 

 
 

 
 
 CONTACT:Hecla Mining CompanyMélanie HennesseyVice
 President – Investor RelationsDirect: 604-694-7729Direct
 Main: 800-HECLA91 (800-432-5291)hmc-info@hecla-mining.comwww.hecla-mining.com