EX-99.1
5
ex99-1.htm

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

Hycroft Mining Announces 1-For-10
Reverse Stock Split

 

WINNEMUCCA, NV, November
9, 2023 – Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: HYMC) (“Hycroft” or “the Company”) today
announced that the Company’s board of directors has resolved to effectuate a reverse stock split of Hycroft’s issued and outstanding
Class A common stock (“Common Stock”) and has determined the ratio to be 1-for-10. Hycroft’s stockholders previously
approved the reverse stock split and granted the board of directors the authority to determine the exact split ratio and when to proceed
with the reverse stock split at the Company’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 24, 2023.

 

The reverse stock split will
become effective on November 14, 2023, at 4:00 p.m., Eastern Time, (“Effective Time”) and the Company’s Common
Stock is expected to begin trading on a reverse stock split-adjusted basis on the Nasdaq Capital Market (“Nasdaq”) as of the
open of trading on November 15, 2023, under the existing ticker symbol, “HYMC.” The reverse stock split is intended to
increase the price per share of the Company’s Common Stock to allow the Company to demonstrate compliance with the $1.00 minimum
bid price requirement for continued listing on Nasdaq.

 

As of the Effective Time,
every 10 shares of the Company’s issued and outstanding Common Stock will be combined into one issued and outstanding share of Common
Stock. The par value per share of our Common Stock will remain unchanged at $0.0001. Proportional adjustments will be made to the
number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Company’s outstanding warrants, options and restricted stock
units, and the number of shares authorized and reserved for issuance pursuant to the Company’s equity incentive plans. The total
number of authorized shares of Common Stock and preferred stock will not be reduced and remain at 1,400,000,000 and 10,000,000 shares,
respectively. No fractional shares will be issued as a result of the reverse stock split; rather, the Company’s transfer agent will
aggregate all fractional shares remaining after the reverse stock split and sell them on the open market on behalf of those stockholders
who would otherwise be entitled to receive a fractional share, and after the transfer agent’s completion of such sale, stockholders
will receive a cash payment (without interest or deduction) from the transfer agent in an amount equal to their respective pro rata share
of the total net proceeds of that sale.

 

The Company’s transfer
agent, Continental Stock & Trust Company, will serve as the exchange agent for the reverse stock split. Registered stockholders
holding pre-reverse stock split shares of Common Stock electronically in book-entry form are not required to take any action to receive
post-reverse stock split shares. Those stockholders who hold their shares in brokerage accounts or in “street name” will have
their positions automatically adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split, subject to each broker’s particular processes, and will
not be required to take any action in connection with the reverse stock split.

 

Additional information about the reverse stock split
can be found in Hycroft’s definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 13, 2023,
a copy of which is available at www.sec.gov.

 

 
 
 

 

About Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation

 

Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation is a US-based gold
and silver company developing the Hycroft Mine, one of the world’s largest precious metals deposits located in northern Nevada,
a Tier-One mining jurisdiction. After a long history of oxide heap leaching operations, the Company is focused on completing the technical
studies to transition the Hycroft Mine into a large-scale milling operation for processing the sulfide ore. In addition, the Company is
engaged in a robust exploration drill program to unlock the full potential of our expansive +64,000-acre land package, of which less than
10% has been explored.

 

For further information, please contact:

 

Fiona Grant Leydier
Vice President, Investor Relations
E: info@hycroftmining.com
T: +1 (775) 437-5912 x 101

 

www.hycroftmining.com

 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

 

This news release contains
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section
21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included herein and public statements by our officers or representatives,
that address activities, events or developments that our management expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, are forward-looking
statements, including but not limited to such things as future business strategy, plans and goals, competitive strengths and expansion
and growth of our business. The words “estimate”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”,
“believe” “target”, “budget”, “may”, “can”, “will”, “would”,
“could”, “should”, “seeks”, or “scheduled to” and similar words or expressions, or negatives
of these terms or other variations of these terms or comparable language or any discussion of strategy or intention identify forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements address activities, events, or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may
occur in the future and are based on current expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited
to (i) risks related to changes in our operations at the Hycroft Mine, including risks associated with the cessation of mining operations
at the Hycroft Mine; uncertainties concerning estimates of mineral resources; risks related to a lack of a completed feasibility study;
and risks related to our ability to re-establish commercially feasible mining operations; (ii) industry related risks including fluctuations
in the price of gold and silver; the commercial success of, and risks related to, our exploration and development activities; uncertainties
and risks related to our reliance on contractors and consultants; availability and cost of equipment, supplies, energy, or reagents. The
exploration target does not represent, and should not be construed to be, an estimate of a mineral resource or mineral reserve, as ranges
of potential tonnage and grade (or quality) of the exploration target are conceptual in nature; there has been insufficient exploration
of the relevant property or properties to estimate a mineral resource; and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the estimation
of a mineral resource. These risks may include the following, and the occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances alone or
in combination with other events or circumstances may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flows, financial
condition, and results of operations. Please see our “Risk Factors” outlined in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2022, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the periods ended June 30, 2023, and other reports filed with
the SEC for more information about these and other risks. You are cautioned against attributing undue certainty to forward-looking statements.
Although we have attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in
forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. Although these
forward-looking statements were based on assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable when made, you are cautioned that forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results, performance, or achievements may differ materially from those
made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements in this news release. In addition, even if our results, performance, or achievements
are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this news release, those results, performance or achievements may not
be indicative of results, performance or achievements in subsequent periods. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made in this news release speak only as of
the date of those statements. We undertake no obligation to update those statements or publicly announce the results of any revisions
to any of those statements to reflect future events or developments.