EX-99.1
2
tv486265_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

INDEX TO BALANCE SHEET

 

 ​ 
 Page

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 2

 Balance Sheet 
 3

 Notes to Balance Sheet 
 4

 

 
 
 

 

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

 

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of
Mudrick Capital Acquisition Corporation

 

Opinion on the Financial Statement

 

We have audited the accompanying balance sheet
of Mudrick Capital Acquisition Corporation (the "Company") as of February 12, 2018 and the related notes (collectively
referred to as the "financial statement"). In our opinion, the financial statement presents fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of the Company as of February 12, 2018, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.

 

Basis for Opinion

 

This financial statement is the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statement based on our audit.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB")
and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

 

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statement is free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audit included performing procedures
to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statement, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statement. Our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

 

 /s/ WithumSmith+Brown, PC
 

 
 

 We have served as the Company's auditor since 2017.
 

 
 

 New York, New York
 

 
 

 February 16, 2018
 

 

 2 
 
 

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

 

BALANCE SHEET

 

FEBRUARY 12, 2018

 

 ASSETS 
 

 Current Assets 
 

 Cash 
 $869,267 

 Prepaid expenses 
 119,400 

 Total Current Assets 
 988,667 

 
 

 Cash held in Trust Account 
 202,000,000 

 Total Assets 
 $202,988,667 

 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 

 Current Liabilities – Accrued expenses 
 $1,128 

 Total Current Liabilities 
 1,128 

 
 

 Deferred underwriting fee payable 
 7,000,000 

 Total Liabilities 
 7,001,128 

 
 

 Commitments 
 

 
 

 Common stock subject to possible redemption, $0.0001 par
 value, 18,909,657 shares at redemption value of $10.10 
 190,987,536 

 
 

 Stockholders’ Equity 
 

 Preferred stock, $0.0001 par value; 1,000,000 authorized; none issued and outstanding 
 — 

 Class A Common stock, $0.0001 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized; 1,090,343 shares issued and outstanding (excluding 18,909,657 shares subject to possible redemption) 
 109 

 Class B Common stock, $0.0001 par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized; 5,750,000 shares issued and outstanding (1) 
 575 

 Additional paid-in capital 
 5,002,692 

 Accumulated deficit 
 (3,373)

 Total Stockholders’ Equity 
 5,000,003 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 $202,988,667 

 

 (1)
 Includes an aggregate of 750,000 shares that are subject to forfeiture to the extent that the underwriters’ over-allotment is not exercised in full (Note 5).

 

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of this financial statement.

 

 3 
 
 

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

NOTES TO BALANCE SHEET

 

Note 1 — Description of Organization
and Business Operations

 

Mudrick Capital Acquisition
Corporation (the “Company”) was incorporated in Delaware on August 28, 2017. The Company was formed for the purpose
of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination
with one or more businesses (the “Business Combination”).

 

Although the Company is
not limited to a particular industry or sector for purposes of consummating a Business Combination, the Company intends to focus
its search on companies that have recently emerged from bankruptcy court protection. The Company is an early stage and emerging
growth company and, as such, the Company is subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies.

 

As of February 12, 2018,
the Company had not commenced any operations. All activity through February 12, 2018 relates to the Company’s formation and
its Initial Public Offering, which is described below. The Company will not generate any operating revenues until after the completion
of its initial Business Combination, at the earliest. The Company will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income
on cash and cash equivalents from the proceeds derived from the Initial Public Offering.

 

The registration statement
for the Company’s initial public offering (“Initial Public Offering”) was declared effective on February 7, 2018.
On February 12, 2018, the Company consummated the Initial Public Offering of 20,000,000 units (“Units” and, with respect
to the Class A common stock included in the Units being offered, the “Public Shares”) at $10.00 per Unit, generating
gross proceeds of $200,000,000, which is described in Note 3. 

 

Simultaneously with the
closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Company consummated the sale of 7,500,000 warrants (the “Private Placement Warrants”)
at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to the Company’s sponsor, Mudrick Capital Acquisition
Holdings LLC ($6,500,000) (the “Sponsor”) and Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. ($1,000,000) (“Cantor”), generating
gross proceeds of $7,500,000, which is described in Note 4. 

 

Transaction costs amounted
to $11,534,088, consisting of $4,000,000 of underwriting fees, $7,000,000 of deferred underwriting fees payable (which are held
in the Trust Account (defined below)) and $534,088 of other costs. In addition, $869,267 of cash was held outside of the Trust
Account and is available for working capital purposes. As described in Note 5, the $7,000,000 deferred underwriting fee payable
is contingent upon the consummation of a Business Combination by February 12, 2020.

 

Following the closing of
the Initial Public Offering on February 12, 2018, an amount of $202,000,000 ($10.10 per Unit) from the net proceeds of the sale
of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement Warrants was placed in a trust account (“Trust Account”)
and may be invested in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act
of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), with a maturity of 180 days or less or in any open-ended investment
company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by the Company meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3)
and (d)(4) of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of
a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account, as described below.

 

The Company’s management
has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of
the Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating
a Business Combination. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to complete a Business Combination successfully. The
Company must complete one or more initial Business Combinations having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the assets
held in the Trust Account (excluding the deferred underwriting commissions and taxes payable on income earned on the Trust Account)
at the time of the agreement to enter into the initial Business Combination. However, the Company will only complete a Business
Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or
otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company
under the Investment Company Act.

 

The Company will provide
its holders of the outstanding shares of its Class A common stock, par value $0.0001, par value $0.0001 (“Class A common
stock”), sold in the Initial Public Offering (the “public stockholders”) with the opportunity to redeem all or
a portion of their Public Shares (as defined below in Note 3) upon the completion of a Business Combination either (i) in connection
with a stockholder meeting called to approve the Business Combination or (ii) by means of a tender offer. The decision as to whether
the Company will seek stockholder approval of a Business Combination or conduct a tender offer will be made by the Company, solely
in its discretion. The public stockholders will be entitled to redeem their Public Shares for a pro rata portion of the amount
then in the Trust Account ($10.10 per Public Share). The per-share amount to be distributed to public stockholders who redeem their
Public Shares will not be reduced by the deferred underwriting commissions the Company will pay to the underwriters (as discussed
in Note 5). In such case, the Company will proceed with a Business Combination if the Company has net tangible assets of at least
$5,000,001 upon such consummation of a Business Combination and, if the Company seeks stockholder approval, a majority of the shares
voted are voted in favor of the Business Combination. If a stockholder vote is not required by law and the Company does not decide
to hold a stockholder vote for business or other legal reasons, the Company will, pursuant to its Amended and Restated Certificate
of Incorporation (the “Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation”), conduct the redemptions pursuant to the
tender offer rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and file tender offer documents with the
SEC prior to completing a Business Combination. If, however, stockholder approval of the transaction is required by law, or the
Company decides to obtain stockholder approval for business or legal reasons, the Company will offer to redeem shares in conjunction
with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules and not pursuant to the tender offer rules. Additionally, each public stockholder
may elect to redeem their Public Shares irrespective of whether they vote for or against the proposed transaction. If the Company
seeks stockholder approval in connection with a Business Combination, the initial stockholders (as defined below) have agreed to
vote its Founder Shares (as defined in Note 4) and any Public Shares held by them in favor of approving a Business Combination.
In addition, the initial stockholders have agreed to waive their redemption rights with respect to their Founder Shares and Public
Shares in connection with the completion of a Business Combination.

 

 4 
 
 

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

NOTES TO BALANCE SHEET

 

Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of such stockholder
or any other person with whom such stockholder is acting in concert or as a “group” (as defined under Section 13 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)), will be restricted from redeeming its shares
with respect to more than an aggregate of 15% or more of the Class A common stock sold in the Initial Public Offering, without
the prior consent of the Company.

 

The Company’s Sponsor,
officers and directors (the “initial stockholders”) have agreed not to propose an amendment to the Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation (i) that would affect the substance or timing of the Company’s obligation to redeem 100% of
its Public Shares if the Company does not complete a Business Combination or (ii) with respect to any other provision relating
to stockholders’ rights or pre-business combination activity, unless the Company provides the public stockholders with the
opportunity to redeem their shares of Class A common stock in conjunction with any such amendment.

 

If the Company is
unable to complete a Business Combination by February 12, 2020 (the “Combination Period”), the Company will (i)
cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten
business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then
on deposit in the Trust Account including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released
to the Company to pay franchise and income taxes (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by
the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders’ rights
as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and
(iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the Company’s remaining
stockholders and the Company’s board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to the Company’s
obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law.

 

The initial stockholders
have agreed to waive their liquidation rights with respect to the Founder Shares if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination
within the Combination Period. However, if the initial stockholders acquire Public Shares in or after the Initial Public Offering,
they will be entitled to liquidating distributions from the Trust Account with respect to such Public Shares if the Company fails
to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period. The underwriters have agreed to waive their rights to their deferred
underwriting commission (see Note 5) held in the Trust Account in the event the Company does not complete a Business Combination
within in the Combination Period and, in such event, such amounts will be included with the other funds held in the Trust Account
that will be available to fund the redemption of the Public Shares. In the event of such distribution, it is possible that the
per share value of the residual assets remaining available for distribution (including Trust Account assets) will be only $10.10
per share held in the Trust Account. In order to protect the amounts held in the Trust Account, the Sponsor has agreed to be liable
to the Company if and to the extent any claims by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to the Company, or a prospective
target business with which the Company has discussed entering into a transaction agreement, reduce the amount of funds in the Trust
Account. This liability will not apply with respect to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any right, title, interest
or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account or to any claims under the Company’s indemnity of the
underwriters of the Initial Public Offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended (the “Securities Act”). Moreover, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against
a third party, the Sponsor will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third party claims. The Company will
seek to reduce the possibility that the Sponsor will have to indemnify the Trust Account due to claims of creditors by endeavoring
to have all vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses or other entities with which the Company does business, execute
agreements with the Company waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the Trust Account.

 

Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies

 

Basis of Presentation

 

The accompanying balance
sheet is presented in U.S. dollars in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(“U.S. GAAP”) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC.

 

 5 
 
 

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

NOTES TO BALANCE SHEET

 

Emerging Growth Company

 

The Company is an “emerging
growth company,” as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”),
as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), and it may take advantage of certain
exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies
including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation
requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic
reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation
and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.

 

Further, section 102(b)(1)
of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards
until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not
have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting
standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements
that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt
out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates
for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time
private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of the Company’s financial statement with another
public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended
transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used.

 

Use of Estimates

 

The preparation of the
balance sheet in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires the Company’s management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
balance sheet.

 

Making estimates requires
management to exercise significant judgment. It is at least reasonably possible that the estimate of the effect of a condition,
situation or set of circumstances that existed at the date of the balance sheet, which management considered in formulating its
estimate, could change in the near term due to one or more future confirming events. Accordingly, the actual results could differ
significantly from those estimates.

 

Cash and cash equivalents 

 

The Company considers
all short-term investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. The Company
did not have any cash equivalents as of February 12, 2018. 

 

Cash held in Trust Account 

 

At February 12, 2018,
the assets held in the Trust Account were held in cash. 

 

Common stock subject to possible redemption 

 

The Company accounts
for its common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”)
Topic 480 “Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity.” Common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified
as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features
redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events
not solely within the Company’s control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified
as stockholders’ equity. The Company’s common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside
of the Company’s control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at February 12, 2018, common
stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders’ equity section of the
Company’s balance sheet.

 

Offering Costs

 

Offering costs consist
principally of legal, accounting, underwriting fees and other costs incurred through the balance sheet date that are directly related
to the Initial Public Offering. Offering costs amounting to $11,534,088 were charged to stockholders’ equity upon the completion
of the Initial Public Offering.

 

Income Taxes

 

The Company follows the
asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes under FASB ASC 740, “Income Taxes.” Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statements
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period that included the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to
the amount expected to be realized.

 

 6 
 
 

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

NOTES TO BALANCE SHEET

 

FASB
ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement
of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more
likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties
related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits and no amounts
accrued for interest and penalties as of February 12, 2018. The Company is currently not aware of any issues under review that
could result in significant payments, accruals or material deviation from its position. The Company is subject to income tax examinations
by major taxing authorities since inception.

 

Concentration of Credit Risk

 

Financial instruments that
potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist of a cash account in a financial institution, which, at
times, may exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Coverage of  $250,000. At February 12, 2018, the Company has not experienced
losses on this account and management believes the Company is not exposed to significant risks on such account.

 

Financial Instruments

 

The fair value of the Company’s
assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under the FASB ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,”
approximates the carrying amounts represented in the balance sheet, primarily due to their short-term nature.

 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

 

The Company’s management
does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would
have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements.

 

Note 3 — Initial Public Offering

 

Pursuant to the Initial
Public Offering, the Company sold 20,000,000 units at a price of  $10.00 per Unit. Each Unit consists of one share of Class
A common stock (such shares of Class A common stock included in the Units being offered, the “Public Shares”), and
one redeemable warrant (each, a “Public Warrant”). Each Public Warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of
Class A common stock at a price of  $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment (see Note 6).

 

Note 4 — Related Party Transactions

 

Founder Shares

 

On September 25, 2017, the
Sponsor purchased 5,750,000 shares (the “Founder Shares”) of the Company’s Class B common stock, par value $0.001
(“Class B common stock”) for an aggregate price of $25,000. The Founder Shares will automatically convert into shares
of Class A common stock at the time of the Company’s initial Business Combination and are subject to certain transfer restrictions,
as described in Note 6. Holders of Founder Shares may also elect to convert their shares of Class B common stock into an equal
number of shares of Class A common stock, subject to adjustment, at any time. The initial stockholders have agreed to forfeit up
to 750,000 Founder Shares to the extent that the over-allotment option is not exercised in full by the underwriters. The forfeiture
will be adjusted to the extent that the over-allotment option is not exercised in full by the underwriters so that the Founder
Shares will represent 20.0% of the Company’s issued and outstanding shares after the Initial Public Offering.

 

The initial stockholders
have agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of its Founder Shares until the earlier to occur
of: (A) one year after the completion of the initial Business Combination or (B) subsequent to the initial Business Combination,
(x) if the last sale price of the Class A common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock
dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing
at least 150 days after the initial Business Combination, or (y) the date on which the Company completes a liquidation, merger,
capital stock exchange or other similar transaction that results in all of the Company’s stockholders having the right to
exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property.

 

 7 
 
 

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

NOTES TO BALANCE SHEET

 

Private Placement Warrants

 

The Sponsor and Cantor purchased
an aggregate of 7,500,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of  $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant (6,500,000 Private
Placement Warrants by the Sponsor and 1,000,000 Private Placement Warrants by Cantor) for an aggregate purchase price of 
$7,500,000. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable for one whole share of Class A common stock at a price of  $11.50
per share. The proceeds from the Private Placement Warrants were added to the proceeds from the Initial Public Offering held in
the Trust Account. If the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, the Private Placement
Warrants will expire worthless. The Private Placement Warrants will be non-redeemable and exercisable on a cashless basis so long
as they are held by the Sponsor, Cantor or their permitted transferees. The warrants will expire five years after the completion
of the Company’s Business Combination or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. In addition, for as long as the Private
Placement Warrants are held by Cantor or its designees or affiliates, they may not be exercised after five years from the effective
date of the registration statement for the Initial Public Offering.

 

The Private Placement Warrants
have been deemed compensation by FINRA and are therefore subject to a 180-day lock-up pursuant to Rule 5110(g)(1) of the FINRA
Manual commencing on the effective date of the registration statement for the Initial Public Offering. Pursuant to FINRA Rule 5110(g)(1),
these securities will not be the subject of any hedging, short sale, derivative, put or call transaction that would result in the
economic disposition of the securities by any person for a period of 180 days immediately following the effective date of the registration
statement for the Initial Public Offering. Additionally, the Private Placement Warrants purchased by Cantor may not be sold, transferred,
assigned, pledged or hypothecated for 180 days following the effective date of the Initial Public Offering except to any selected
dealer participating in the Initial Public Offering and the bona fide officers or partners of the underwriter and any such participating
selected dealer.

 

The Sponsor, Cantor and
the Company’s officers and directors have agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of their
Private Placement Warrants until 30 days after the completion of the initial Business Combination.

 

Related Party Loans

 

On September 25, 2017, the
Sponsor agreed to loan the Company an aggregate of up to $300,000 to cover expenses related to the Proposed Public Offering pursuant
to a promissory note (the “Note”). The Note was non-interest bearing and payable on the earlier of March 31, 2018 or
the completion of the Initial Public Offering. The Note was repaid upon the consummation of the Initial Public Offering.

 

In addition, in order to
finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of
the Company’s officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required (“Working
Capital Loans”). If the Company completes a Business Combination, the Company would repay the Working Capital Loans out of
the proceeds of the Trust Account released to the Company. Otherwise, the Working Capital Loans would be repaid only out of funds
held outside the Trust Account. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of proceeds
held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay
the Working Capital Loans. Except for the foregoing, the terms of such Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been determined
and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation
of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lender’s discretion, up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans
may be convertible into warrants of the post Business Combination entity at a price of  $1.00 per warrant. The warrants
would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants.

 

Administrative Support Agreement

 

The Company entered into
an agreement whereby, commencing on February 8, 2018 through the earlier of the Company’s consummation of a Business Combination
and its liquidation, to pay the Sponsor a total of  $10,000 per month for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative
support.

 

Note 5 — Commitments

 

Registration Rights

 

Pursuant to a registration
rights agreement entered into on February 7, 2018, the holders of Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants, securities issuable
pursuant to the Forward Purchase Contract (see below), and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans
are entitled to registration rights (in the case of the Founder Shares, only after conversion of such shares to shares of Class
A common stock). These holders have certain demand and “piggyback” registration rights. The Company will bear the expenses
incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements.

 

 8 
 
 

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

NOTES TO BALANCE SHEET

 

Underwriting Agreement

 

The Company granted the
underwriters a 45-day option to purchase up to 3,000,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments at the Initial Public Offering
price less the underwriting discounts and commissions.

 

The underwriters were paid
a cash underwriting discount of  $0.20 per Unit, or $4,000,000 in the aggregate. In addition, the underwriters are entitled
to a deferred fee of  $0.35 per Unit, or $7,000,000 in the aggregate (or $8,050,000 in the aggregate if the underwriters’
over-allotment option is exercised in full). The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in
the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting
agreement.

 

Forward Purchase Contract

 

On January 24, 2018, the
Company entered into a forward purchase contract (the “Forward Purchase Contract”) with the Sponsor, pursuant to which
the Sponsor committed to purchase, in a private placement for gross proceeds of  $25,000,000 to occur concurrently with
the consummation of a Business Combination, 2,500,000 Units (the “Forward Units”) on substantially the same terms as
the sale of Units in Initial Public Offering at $10.00 per Unit, and 625,000 shares of Class A common stock. The funds from the
sale of Forward Units will be used as part of the consideration to the sellers in a Business Combination; any excess funds from
this private placement will be used for working capital purposes in the post-transaction company. This commitment is independent
of the percentage of stockholders electing to redeem their Public Shares and provides the Company with a minimum funding level
for a Business Combination.

 

Note 6 — Stockholder’s Equity

 

Common Stock

 

Class A Common Stock
— The Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of Class A common stock with a par value of  $0.0001 per share.
As of February 12, 2018, there were 1,090,343 shares of Class A common stock issued or outstanding (excluding 18,909,657 shares
of common stock subject to possible redemption).

 

Class B Common Stock
— The Company is authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of Class B common stock with a par value of  $0.0001 per share.
Holders of Class B common stock are entitled to one vote for each share. As of February 12, 2018, there were 5,750,000 shares of
Class B common stock outstanding, of which an aggregate of up to 750,000 shares are subject to forfeiture to the Company by the
Sponsor for no consideration to the extent that the underwriters’ over-allotment option is not exercised in full or in part,
so that the initial stockholders will collectively own 20% of the Company’s issued and outstanding common stock after the
Initial Public Offering.

 

Holders of Class A common
stock and Class B common stock will vote together as a single class on all other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders except
as required by law.

 

The shares of Class B common
stock will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock at the time of the initial Business Combination on a one-for-one
basis, subject to adjustment. In the case that additional shares of Class A common stock, or equity-linked securities, are issued
or deemed issued in excess of the amounts offered in the Initial Public Offering and related to the closing of the initial Business
Combination, the ratio at which shares of Class B common stock shall convert into shares of Class A common stock will be adjusted
(unless the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock agree to waive such adjustment with respect
to any such issuance or deemed issuance) so that the number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of all shares
of Class B common stock will equal, in the aggregate, on an as-converted basis, 20% of the sum of the total number of all shares
of common stock outstanding upon the completion of the Initial Public Offering plus all shares of Class A common stock and equity-linked
securities issued or deemed issued in connection with the initial Business Combination (excluding any shares or equity-linked securities
issued, or to be issued, to any seller in the initial Business Combination, any private placement-equivalent warrants issued to
the Sponsor or its affiliates upon conversion of loans made to the Company or any securities issued pursuant to the Forward Purchase
Contract (see Note 5)). Holders of Founder Shares may also elect to convert their shares of Class B common stock into an equal
number of shares of Class A common stock, subject to adjustment as provided above, at any time.

 

Preferred Stock
— The Company is authorized to issue 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a par value of  $0.0001 per share with
such designations, voting and other rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Company’s board
of directors. As of February 12, 2018, there were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding.

 

Warrants —
Public Warrants may only be exercised for a whole number of shares. The Public Warrants will become exercisable on the later of 
(a) 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination or (b) 12 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering; provided
in each case that the Company has an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock
issuable upon exercise of the Public Warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. The Company has agreed that
as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 15 business days after the closing of a Business Combination, the Company will
use its best efforts to file with the SEC a registration statement for the registration, under the Securities Act, of the shares
of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the Public Warrants. The Company will use its best efforts to cause the same
to become effective and to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement, and a current prospectus relating thereto,
until the expiration of the Public Warrants in accordance with the provisions of the warrant agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if a registration statement covering the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the Public Warrants is not effective
within a specified period following the consummation of Business Combination, warrant holders may, until such time as there is
an effective registration statement and during any period when the Company shall have failed to maintain an effective registration
statement, exercise warrants on a cashless basis pursuant to the exemption provided by Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act, provided
that such exemption is available. If that exemption, or another exemption, is not available, holders will not be able to exercise
their warrants on a cashless basis. The Public Warrants will expire five years after the completion of a Business Combination or
earlier upon redemption or liquidation.

 

 9 
 
 

 

MUDRICK CAPITAL ACQUISITION CORPORATION

NOTES TO BALANCE SHEET

 

The Private Placement Warrants
are identical to the Public Warrants underlying the Units being sold in the Initial Public Offering, except that the Private Placement
Warrants and the Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants will not be transferable, assignable
or salable until 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination, subject to certain limited exceptions. Additionally, the
Private Placement Warrants will be exercisable on a cashless basis and be non-redeemable so long as they are held by the initial
purchasers or their permitted transferees. If the Private Placement Warrants are held by someone other than the initial purchasers
or their permitted transferees, the Private Placement Warrants will be redeemable by the Company and exercisable by such holders
on the same basis as the Public Warrants.

 

The Company may redeem the
Public Warrants (except with respect to the Private Placement Warrants):

 

•in whole and not in part;

•at a price of  $0.01 per warrant;

•at any time during the exercise period;

•upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption; and

•if, and only if, the last sale price of the Company’s Class A common stock equals or exceeds
$18.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which
the Company sends the notice of redemption to the warrant holders.

•If, and only if, there is a current registration statement in effect with respect to the shares
of Class A common stock underlying such warrants.

 

If the Company calls
the Public Warrants for redemption, management will have the option to require all holders that wish to exercise the Public Warrants
to do so on a “cashless basis,” as described in the warrant agreement.

 

The exercise price and number
of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants may be adjusted in certain circumstances including in
the event of a stock dividend, or recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation. However, the warrants will not be
adjusted for issuance of Class A common stock at a price below its exercise price. Additionally, in no event will the Company be
required to net cash settle the warrants. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period
and the Company liquidates the funds held in the Trust Account, holders of warrants will not receive any of such funds with respect
to their warrants, nor will they receive any distribution from the Company’s assets held outside of the Trust Account with
the respect to such warrants. Accordingly, the warrants may expire worthless.

 

Note 7 — Subsequent Events

 

The Company evaluated subsequent
events and transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date up to the date that the balance sheet was issued. Based upon
this review, the Company did not identify any subsequent events that would have required adjustment or disclosure in the balance
sheet.

 

 10