EX-99.1
2
ex99-1.htm
EX-99.1

 

 

Exhibit
99.1

 

 

Hycroft
Announces Closing of $60 Million Private Placement

 

WINNEMUCCA,
Nev., September 11, 2025 – Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: HYMC) (“Hycroft” or the “Company”)
is pleased to announce the closing of the non-brokered private placement (the “Private Placement”) announced on September
2, 2025, with Eric Sprott as the lead investor, for gross proceeds of US$60 million.

 

The
Private Placement consisted of a total of 14,017,056 units (the “Units”) at a price of $4.2805 per Unit. Each Unit comprises
one common share (a “Common Share”) of the Company and one-half common share purchase warrant (each whole warrant, a “Warrant”).
Each Warrant is exercisable into one Common Share at a price of $6.00 per share for a period of 24 months with an accelerator provision.

 

The
net proceeds from this Private Placement will be primarily used to fund advancement of the Hycroft Mine, and for working capital and
general corporate purposes. The Company’s unrestricted cash after receipt of the private placement funds is approximately $129
million.

 

As
a result of the Private Placement, Mr. Sprott now beneficially owns or controls approximately 17,535,528 Common Shares, representing
approximately 33% of the outstanding shares and 10,188,176 warrants. Tribeca Global Natural Resources Ltd. (“Tribeca”) beneficially
owns or controls approximately 8% of the outstanding shares.

 

Mr.
Sprott, through 2176423 Ontario Ltd., a corporation which is beneficially owned by him, acquired 9,344,704 Units at $4.2805 per Unit
for total consideration of $40 million, and Tribeca acquired 4,438,734 Units at $4.2805 per Unit for total consideration of $19 million.
Other participants acquired 233,618 Units at $4.2805 per Unit for total consideration of $1 million.

 

The
shares of common stock and warrants described above were offered in a private placement under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended (the “Act”) and Regulation D promulgated thereunder and, along with the shares of common stock underlying
the warrants, have not been registered under the Act or applicable state securities laws. Accordingly, the shares of common stock, warrants
and the shares of common stock underlying the warrants may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or an applicable exemption from such registration requirements. The securities were offered
only to accredited investors. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement, the Company has agreed to file one or more registration statements
with the SEC covering the resale of the shares of common stock and the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants (the “Resale
Registration Statement”).

 

This
press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy these securities, nor shall there be any sale
of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or
qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.

 

 

 
 
 

 

About
Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation

 

Hycroft
Mining Holding Corporation is a U.S.-based gold and silver company developing the Hycroft Mine, among the world’s largest precious
metals deposits located in northern Nevada, a Tier-One mining jurisdiction. After a long history of oxide heap leaching operations, the
Company is focused on completing the technical studies to transition the Hycroft Mine into the next phase of commercial operations for
processing the sulfide ore. In addition, the Company is engaged in a robust exploration drill program to further expand the newly discovered
high-grade dominant silver systems and unlock the full potential of this world class asset, including ore amenable to heap leaching.

 

For
further information, please contact: info@hycroftmining.com

 

www.hycroftmining.com

 

Cautionary
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.

 

This
news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the United States Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included herein and public statements by our
officers or representatives, that address activities, events or developments that our management expects or anticipates will or may occur
in the future, are forward-looking statements, including but not limited to such things as future business strategy, plans and goals,
competitive strengths and expansion and growth of our business. The words “estimate”, “plan”, “anticipate”,
“expect”, “intend”, “believe” “target”, “budget”, “may”, “can”,
“will”, “would”, “could”, “should”, “seeks”, or “scheduled to”
and similar words or expressions, or negatives of these terms or other variations of these terms or comparable language or any discussion
of strategy or intention identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements address activities, events, or developments
that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future and are based on current expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to: risks related to changes in our operations at the Hycroft Mine; industry related risks including
the commercial success of, and risks related to, our exploration and development activities; and the intended use of proceeds from the
offering. These risks may include the following, and the occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances alone or in combination
with other events or circumstances may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flows, financial condition,
and results of operations. Please see our “Risk Factors” outlined in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2024, and other reports filed with the SEC for more information about these and other risks. You are cautioned against attributing
undue certainty to forward-looking statements. Although we have attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated,
estimated or intended. Although these forward-looking statements were based on assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable when
made, you are cautioned that forward- looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results, performance,
or achievements may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements in this news release. In addition,
even if our results, performance, or achievements are consistent with the forward- looking statements contained in this news release,
those results, performance or achievements may not be indicative of results, performance or achievements in subsequent periods. Given
these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking
statements made in this news release speak only as of the date of those statements. We undertake no obligation to update those statements
or publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of those statements to reflect future events or developments.

 

 Page 2