EX-99.1
10
tv485754_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

Mudrick Capital Acquisition Corporation Announces
Pricing of $200,000,000 Initial Public Offering

 

New York, NY – February 7, 2018 – Mudrick Capital Acquisition
Corporation (the “Company”) announced today that it priced its initial public offering of 20,000,000 units at $10.00
per unit. The units will be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market (“Nasdaq”) and trade under the ticker symbol “MUDS.U”
beginning February 8, 2018. Each unit consists of one share of the Company’s Class A common stock and one warrant, each warrant
enabling the holder thereof to purchase one share of the Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share. Once the securities
comprising the units begin separate trading, the Class A common stock and warrants are expected to be listed on Nasdaq under the
symbols “MUDS” and “MUDS.W,” respectively.

 

The Company is a blank check company formed for the purpose of entering
into a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one
or more businesses. While the Company may pursue an initial business combination target in any business or industry, it intends
to focus its search on post-restructured companies. The Company is led by Chief Executive Officer Jason Mudrick.

 

Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. is acting as the sole book running manager
for the offering. Chardan is acting as lead manager. The Company has granted the underwriters a 45-day option to purchase up to
an additional 3,000,000 units at the initial public offering price to cover over-allotments, if any.

 

The offering is being made only by means of a prospectus. Copies
of the prospectus may be obtained, when available, from Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., 499 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10022,
Attn: Kevin Brennan, kbrennan@cantor.com, tel.: (212) 915-1970.

 

A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed
with, and declared effective by, the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2018. This press release shall not
constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state
or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the
securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.

 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This press release contains statements that constitute “forward-looking
statements,” including with respect to the initial public offering and the anticipated use of the net proceeds. No assurance
can be given that the offering discussed above will be completed on the terms described, or at all, or that the net proceeds of
the offering will be used as indicated. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous conditions, many of which are beyond
the control of the Company, including those set forth in the Risk Factors section of the Company's registration statement and preliminary
prospectus for the offering filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies are available on the
SEC's website, www.sec.gov. The Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements for revisions or changes after
the date of this release, except as required by law.

 

Contact

Jason Mudrick

(646) 747-9500

jmudrick@mudrickcapital.com