EX-99.1
2
ex99-1.htm
EX-99.1

 

 

Exhibit
99.1

 

 

Hycroft
Files First Quarter 2025 10-Q and Provides Corporate Update

 

WINNEMUCCA,
NV, May 14, 2025 – Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: HYMC) (“Hycroft” or the “Company”)
announces first quarter 2025 results and filing of its Form 10-Q.

 

President’s
Message

 

In
the first quarter of 2025, Hycroft advanced on several key activities: 

 

●Metallurgical
 and engineering work – metallurgical testing advanced in the first quarter with respect
 to the trade-off study between roasting and pressure oxidation (POX) processing options for
 the sulfide ore. Final results are expected mid-summer.

 

●Final
 drill hole assays from the 2024 program were received and demonstrated more positive results
 in the Brimstone high-grade silver trend (see summary details below and press release dated
 April 30, 2025)

 

●Confirmed
 two new prospective exploration targets

 

○Bay
 (at the north end of the property) was drilled in late 2024 (drill hole H24E-6014) and demonstrated
 good high-grade gold veins demonstrating strong target potential at depth; and

 

○Manganese
 (southeast of Brimstone) also drilled in late 2024 (drill hole H24E-6015) yielded very positive
 results showing mineralization extending east beyond our current resource, with multiple
 high-grade oxide intercepts on low angle structures warranting further drilling 

 

Given
the high commodity price environment and identification of new oxide (heap leach) target areas, the technical team at Hycroft is further
assessing the potential opportunity of a start-up heap leach operation in advance of the milling operation.

 

2025
is expected to be a defining year as we near critical milestones and capitalize on new opportunities identified in 2024. Completing the
technical studies for the next phase of operation is a top priority as well as refining drill targets on the high-grade and newly identified
areas of oxide mineralization to continue adding value to the Hycroft mine. With precious metals showing remarkable strength, Hycroft
stands uniquely positioned with its world-class Nevada asset. With less than 10% of our 64,000+-acre property explored, our high-grade
discoveries continuing to expand, existing infrastructure on-site and major mining permits in hand, we are well advanced compared to
other development companies, and we are excited about the opportunities ahead in this robust precious metals environment. 

 

 

 
 
 

 

First
Quarter 2025 HIGHLIGHTS

 

Corporate
Highlights

 

●Safety:
 Hycroft has maintained a 0.00 TRIFR for more than two years, operating over 1.2-million-man
 hours without a Lost Time Incident. 

 

●Environmental:
 Through March 31, 2025, Hycroft maintained an impeccable environmental record and was recognized
 as stewards of successful reclamation.

 

●Balance
 Sheet: The Company ended the first quarter with unrestricted cash of $39.7 million,
 restricted cash of $27.7 million and total debt of $128.0 million. 

 

○The
 cash requirements for the first half of each year are considerably higher than the second
 half of the year due to annual payments for property taxes, property and casualty insurance
 premiums, employee bonuses, and the strategic alternatives process. 

 

Operational
Highlights

 

●Exploration:
 The 2024 drill results together with geophysics, geochemistry, and mapping campaigns,
 has significantly advanced our understanding of the mineralizing controls in the high-grade
 trends of Brimstone and Vortex. In addition, this work has generated high-grade potential
 in new exploration targets (Bay and Manganese). The last of the 2024 drill results from Brimstone
 were received and demonstrate strong continuity of the high-grade veins, both up and down
 dip, as well as along strike. . Furthermore, the work completed throughout 2024 and during
 the first quarter of 2025 has identified the presence of both structures and intrusives in
 the high-grade silver trends, which have not previously been modeled and therefore create
 an excellent high-grade exploration target. The high-grade silver systems remain open in
 all directions and at depth. With less than 10% of the Company’s land position explored,
 there is tremendous further exploration potential.

 

●Technical
 Studies: During the first quarter 2025 metallurgical and engineering work continued
 and final metallurgical test work for roasting will be completed mid-year as part of the
 trade-off studies to assess whether roasting technology could offer superior economics compared
 to pressure oxidation (“POX”) technology for the Hycroft Mine. Roasting could
 allow the Company to be a significant producer of sulfuric acid, which is used in the lithium
 and copper mining industries. Once the final processing option is selected based on the projected
 economic return, the associated gold and silver recoveries and operating costs will be used
 for mine planning culminating in a technical report with economics by year end 2025. The
 Company’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2025, was filed May 13, 2025, and
 is available at www.sec.gov/edgar. See “Cautionary
 Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” below.

 

About
Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation

 

Hycroft
Mining Holding Corporation is a U.S.-based gold and silver company exploring and developing the Hycroft Mine, one of the world’s
largest precious metals deposits located in northern Nevada, a Tier-1 mining jurisdiction. After a long history of oxide heap leaching
operations, the Company is focused on completing the technical studies to transition the Hycroft Mine into a large-scale milling operation
for processing the sulfide ore. In addition, the Company is engaged in a robust exploration drill program to unlock the full potential
of our expansive +64,000-acre land package, of which less than 10% has been explored. In 2023, Hycroft announced the discovery of a new
high-grade silver system within the known resource area and the delineation of two new high-grade silver trends. These discoveries represent
a significant new value driver for the Hycroft Mine that the Company is following up on with additional drilling in 2024.

 

For
further information, please contact: 

 

info@hycroftmining.com

www.hycroftmining.com

 

 Page 2
 
 

 

Cautionary
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

 

This
news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the United States Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included herein and public statements by our
officers or representatives, that address activities, events or developments that our management expects or anticipates will or may occur
in the future, are forward- looking statements, including but not limited to such things as future business strategy, plans and goals,
competitive strengths and expansion and growth of our business. The words “estimate”, “plan”, “anticipate”,
“expect”, “intend”, “believe” “target”, “budget”, “may”, “can”,
“will”, “would”, “could”, “should”, “seeks”, or “scheduled to”
and similar words or expressions, or negatives of these terms or other variations of these terms or comparable language or any discussion
of strategy or intention identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements address activities, events, or developments
that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future and are based on current expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to (i) risks related to changes in our operations at the Hycroft Mine, including risks associated
with the cessation of mining operations at the Hycroft Mine; uncertainties concerning estimates of mineral resources; risks related to
a lack of a completed feasibility study; and risks related to our ability to re- establish commercially feasible mining operations; (ii)
industry related risks including fluctuations in the price of gold and silver; the commercial success of, and risks related to, our exploration
and development activities; uncertainties and risks related to our reliance on contractors and consultants; availability and cost of
equipment, supplies, energy, or reagents. The exploration target does not represent, and should not be construed to be, an estimate of
a mineral resource or mineral reserve, as ranges of potential tonnage and grade (or quality) of the exploration target are conceptual
in nature; there has been insufficient exploration of the relevant property or properties to estimate a mineral resource; and it is uncertain
if further exploration will result in the estimation of a mineral resource. These risks may include the following, and the occurrence
of one or more of the events or circumstances alone or in combination with other events or circumstances may have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. Please see our “Risk Factors”
outlined in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, and other reports filed with the SEC for more information
about these and other risks. You are cautioned against attributing undue certainty to forward-looking statements. Although we have attempted
to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements,
there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. Although these forward-looking statements
were based on assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable when made, you are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and that actual results, performance, or achievements may differ materially from those made in or suggested
by the forward-looking statements in this news release. In addition, even if our results, performance, or achievements are consistent
with the forward-looking statements contained in this news release, those results, performance or achievements may not be indicative
of results, performance or achievements in subsequent periods. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made in this news release speak only as of the date of those
statements. We undertake no obligation to update those statements or publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of those statements
to reflect future events or developments.

 

 Page 3