EX-99.1
6
ex99-1.htm
EX-99.1

 

 

Exhibit
99.1

 

HYCROFT
ANNOUNCES PRICING AND UPSIZING OF PUBLIC OFFERING OF UNITS

 

WINNEMUCCA,
NV, June 12, 2025 – Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: HYMC) (“Hycroft” or the “Company”) is
pleased to announce the pricing of an underwritten offering of 12,500,000 units of the Company (the “Units”) at a
public offering price of $3.50 per Unit (the “Offering”). Each Unit consists of one share of common stock of the Company
and one-half of one common stock purchase warrant (each whole warrant, a “Warrant”). Each Warrant will be exercisable
to purchase one share of common stock of the Company at a price of $4.20 per share, exercisable for a period of 36 months. The shares
of common stock and Warrants will be issued separately but can only be purchased together in the Offering. The gross proceeds from the
Offering are expected to be approximately $43,750,000, before deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering
expenses payable by the Company. In addition, Hycroft has granted the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 1,875,000
units, shares of common stock and/or Warrants, at the underwriters’ discretion.

 

The
Offering is expected to close on June 13, 2025, subject to customary closing conditions.

 

Hycroft
intends to use the net proceeds from the Offering for further exploration, working capital and general corporate purposes.

 

BMO
Capital Markets and Paradigm Capital Inc. are acting as joint book-running managers for the Offering. SCP Resource Finance LP is acting
as a capital markets advisor to the Company.

 

The
Offering is being made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-279292) that was filed by the Company
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), as amended. A preliminary prospectus supplement relating
to and describing the terms of the Offering has been filed with the SEC and is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Copies
of the preliminary prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus, as well as copies of the final prospectus supplement, once available,
may be obtained upon request by contacting BMO Capital Markets Corp., Attn: Equity Syndicate Department, 151 W 42nd Street, 32nd Floor,
New York, NY 10036, or by email at bmoprospectus@bmo.com.

 

This
news release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor will there be any sale of the
securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification
under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.

 

 
 
 

 

About
Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation

 

Hycroft
Mining Holding Corporation is a US-based gold and silver company developing the Hycroft Mine, among the world’s largest precious
metals deposits located in northern Nevada, a Tier-One mining jurisdiction. After a long history of oxide heap leaching operations, the
Company is focused on completing the technical studies to transition the Hycroft Mine into the next phase of commercial operations for
processing the sulfide ore. In addition, the Company is engaged in a robust exploration drill program to further expand the newly discovered
high-grade dominant silver systems and unlock the full potential of this worldclass asset, including oxide leaching potential at Manganese.

 

For
further information, please contact:
info@hycroftmining.com

 

Cautionary
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

 

This
news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the United States Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included herein and public statements by our
officers or representatives, that address activities, events or developments that our management expects or anticipates will or may occur
in the future, are forward- looking statements, including but not limited to such things as future business strategy, plans and goals,
competitive strengths and expansion and growth of our business. The words “estimate”, “plan”, “anticipate”,
“expect”, “intend”, “believe” “target”, “budget”, “may”, “can”,
“will”, “would”, “could”, “should”, “seeks”, or “scheduled to”
and similar words or expressions, or negatives of these terms or other variations of these terms or comparable language or any discussion
of strategy or intention identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements address activities, events, or developments
that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future and are based on current expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking
statements in this news release relate to, among other things, the closing of the Offering and the timing thereof, the intended use of
proceeds of the Offering and the strategic vision and objectives for the Company and expectations regarding exploration potential. Forward-looking
statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described
in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, risks related to changes in our operations
at the Hycroft Mine, including risks associated with the cessation of mining operations at the Hycroft Mine; uncertainties concerning
estimates of mineral resources; risks related to a lack of a completed feasibility study; risks related to our ability to re-establish
commercially feasible mining operations; industry related risks, including fluctuations in the price of gold and silver; the commercial
success of, and risks related to, our exploration and development activities; uncertainties and risks related to our reliance on contractors
and consultants; and the availability and cost of equipment, supplies, energy, or reagents. The occurrence of one or more of the events
or circumstances described alone or in combination with other events or circumstances may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. Please see our “Risk Factors” outlined in our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, and other reports we have filed with the SEC for more information about these
and other risks. You are cautioned against attributing undue certainty to forward-looking statements. Although we have attempted to identify
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, there may
be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. Although these forward-looking statements were based
on assumptions that the Company believed were reasonable when made, you are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees
of future performance and that actual results, performance, or achievements may differ materially from those made in or suggested by
the forward-looking statements in this news release. In addition, even if our results, performance, or achievements are consistent with
the forward-looking statements contained in this news release, those results, performance or achievements may not be indicative of results,
performance or achievements in subsequent periods. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance
on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made in this news release speak only as of the date of those statements.
Readers cannot be assured that the Offering will be completed on the terms described above, or at all. We undertake no obligation to
update those statements or publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of those statements to reflect future events or developments
except as required by applicable law. All forward-looking statements contained in this news release are expressly qualified by the foregoing
cautionary statements.