EX-99.1
2
ex99-1.htm

 

 

Exhibit
99.1

 

 

 

HYCROFT
APPOINTS FIONA GRANT LEYDIER

AS
VICE PRESIDENT, OF INVESTOR RELATIONS

 

WINNEMUCCA,
NV, July 17, 2023 - Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: HYMC) (“Hycroft” or “the Company”), a gold
and silver development company that owns the Hycroft Mine in the prolific mining region of Northern Nevada, announces the appointment
of Fiona Grant Leydier as Vice President, Investor Relations.

 

Diane
Garrett, President & CEO stated, “We are extremely excited to welcome Ms. Grant Leydier to the Hycroft management team. Ms.
Grant Leydier brings a unique and broad-based perspective of capital markets having advised numerous public companies on transformational
corporate activities. Her strong investor relations background, and her deep understanding of the mining industry will greatly compliment
the existing team as we continue to advance the world-class Hycroft mine.”

 

With
over 17 years of experience, Ms. Grant Leydier has held senior positions in Investor Relations and Communications Strategy for numerous
publicly traded mining companies globally. Drawing on her extensive relationships with investors and global capital markets participants,
her role as Vice President, Investor Relations at Hycroft will contribute to growing our shareholder base and deliver on our commitment
to increasing shareholder value.

 

Ms.
Grant Leydier holds a B.A. in Sociology from the University of Victoria, Victoria, B.C., Canada, a Marketing Management and Communications
degree from the British Columbia Institute of Technology, Vancouver, B.C., Canada and completed the Canadian Investor Relations Institute
certification program (“CIRI”) through the Richard Ivey School of Business, Toronto, Canada.

 

About
Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation

 

Hycroft
is a US-based, gold, and silver company developing the Hycroft Mine located in the world-class mining region of Northern Nevada.

 

FOR
FURTHER INFORMATION contact info@hycroftmining.com or visit our website at www.hycroftmining.com.

 

Diane
R. Garrett,

President
& CEO

 

 

 
 
 

 

Cautionary
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.

 

This
news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the United States Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included herein and public statements by our
officers or representatives, that address activities, events or developments that our management expects or anticipates will or may occur
in the future, are forward-looking statements, including but not limited to such things as future business strategy, plans and goals,
competitive strengths and expansion and growth of our business. The words “estimate”, “plan”, “anticipate”,
“expect”, “intend”, “believe” “target”, “budget”, “may”, “can”,
“will”, “would”, “could”, “should”, “seeks”, or “scheduled to”
and similar words or expressions, or negatives of these terms or other variations of these terms or comparable language or any discussion
of strategy or intention identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements address activities, events, or developments
that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future and are based on current expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to (i) risks related to changes in our operations at the Hycroft Mine, including risks associated
with the cessation of mining operations at the Hycroft Mine; uncertainties concerning estimates of mineral resources; risks related to
a lack of a completed feasibility study; and risks related to our ability to re-establish commercially feasible mining operations; (ii)
industry related risks including fluctuations in the price of gold and silver; the commercial success of, and risks related to, our exploration
and development activities; uncertainties and risks related to our reliance on contractors and consultants; availability and cost of
equipment, supplies, energy, or reagents. The exploration target does not represent, and should not be construed to be, an estimate of
a mineral resource or mineral reserve, as ranges of potential tonnage and grade (or quality) of the exploration target are conceptual
in nature; there has been insufficient exploration of the relevant property or properties to estimate a mineral resource; and it is uncertain
if further exploration will result in the estimation of a mineral resource. These risks may include the following and the occurrence
of one or more of the events or circumstances alone or in combination with other events or circumstances may have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. Please see our “Risk Factors”
set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the periods ended
March 31, 2023, and other reports filed with the SEC for more information about these and other risks. You are cautioned against attributing
undue certainty to forward-looking statements. Although we have attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated,
estimated or intended. Although these forward-looking statements were based on assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable when
made, you are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results, performance,
or achievements may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this news release.
In addition, even if our results, performance, or achievements are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this news
release, those results, performance or achievements may not be indicative of results, performance or achievements in subsequent periods.
Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking
statements made in this news release speak only as of the date of those statements. We undertake no obligation to update those statements
or publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of those statements to reflect future events or developments.

 

 
 
 Page
 2