EX-99.1 CHARTER
2
ex99-1.htm

 

 

Exhibit
99.1

 

 

Hycroft
Files 2024 10-K and Provides Corporate Update

 

WINNEMUCCA,
NV, March 5, 2025 – Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: HYMC) (“Hycroft” or the “Company”)
announces 2024 full year results and filing of its Form 10-K.

 

President’s
Message

 

As
precious metals continue their powerful momentum in early 2025, we’re proud to reflect on Hycroft Mining’s outstanding 2024
achievements, culminating in our latest announcement of the best drill hole (Hole 6018) in the Company’s more than 40-year history
- an exceptional intercept of 21.2 meters of 2,359.68 g/t silver, including intervals exceeding 6,000 g/t silver. This supersedes the
prior best hole ever drilled (Hole 5753), which returned over 85 meters of 534 g/t silver, including over 39 meters of 1,019 g/t silver.
The year 2024 can be characterized as doing what our team does best and has done before – creating value by identifying opportunities
that were not explored by several predecessor owners of this unique asset. Our extensive efforts to fully understand the genesis of this
world-class asset delivered success for the Company and our shareholders. 

 

Throughout
2024, our exploration program consistently delivered excellent results, expanding our newly discovered two high-grade silver dominant
trends at Vortex and Brimstone. The drilling campaign produced remarkable intercepts at Brimstone exceeding 1,000 g/t silver in numerous
drill hole intercepts. The 2024 drilling extended high-grade mineralization both up and down dip as well as south along strike, and we
extended Vortex mineralization approximately 100 meters to the west, encountering both high-grade silver and significant gold values.
Additionally, high-grade mineralization was extended along the northern and southern edges, and importantly, vertical continuity was
established within the Vortex zone. Our 9,058-meter drilling program has fundamentally changed the notion that Hycroft is a large, low-grade
system to one with significant high-grade potential. Due to the rapid expansion of the high-grade zones and continued growth opportunities
remaining open in all directions, the Company has been contemplating opportunities to develop a smaller high-grade mining operation for
the initial phase of sulfide mining. This would allow for less initial capital, strong cash flows early in the mine life, and overall
enhanced economics.

 

Our
operational excellence earned industry recognition, with Hycroft receiving the 2024 Operator Safety Award from the Nevada Mining Association.
We concluded the year having achieved over 1,500 days without a lost-time incident - a testament to our team’s commitment to safety.
We have completed more than two years with a zero (0.00) total recordable injury frequency rate (“TRIFR”).

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

Another
significant milestone was our inclusion in the Solactive Global Silver Miners Total Returns Index in May 2024, increasing our visibility
in the investment community. We maintained a strong financial position throughout the year, ending with $49.6 million in unrestricted
cash after pre-paying $38.0 million of our first lien debt while also advancing our exploration and development programs.

 

2025
is expected to be a defining year as we near critical milestones - completing the technical studies for the next phase of operation and
refining drill targets to continue adding value to the Hycroft mine. With precious metals showing remarkable strength, Hycroft stands
uniquely positioned with its world-class Nevada asset. With less than 10% of our 64,000+-acre property explored, our high-grade discoveries
continuing to expand, existing infrastructure on-site and major mining permits in hand, we are well advanced compared to other development
companies, and we are excited about the opportunities ahead in this robust precious metals environment. 

 

The
new management team was assembled in the Fall of 2020 and inherited a substantial debt burden that it has reduced by $101 million (principal
and cash interest over the period). However, as the Company believes the remaining debt with paid-in-kind interest continues to be an
overhang on the Company’s share price and the valuation of its assets, it is continuing to explore a number of strategic and financial
alternatives to address its balance sheet. Management and the holders of the subordinated notes, as well as other third-parties, have
been and continue to work closely and collaboratively on a number of alternatives for restructuring the debt and future funding requirements.
Alternatives may include a restructuring of the Company’s debt obligations, obtaining additional equity financing, joint ventures,
or merger and acquisition transactions. With respect to transactions of this nature, there can be no assurances that any such transaction
will occur or, if it does, the terms and timing thereof. In particular, the terms of any such transaction may be dilutive to our existing
equity holders and at prices below the Company’s current share price. The Company has not set any timetable for a particular transaction
to address the significant amount of debt on its balance sheet and does not intend to disclose further developments unless and until
its Board approves a specific action. 

 

2024
HIGHLIGHTS

 

Corporate
Highlights

 

 
 
 ● 
 Safety:
 Hycroft has maintained a 0.00 TRIFR for over two years, operating over 1.2 million man hours without a Lost Time Incident. During
 the third quarter, Hycroft was awarded the 2024 Operator Safety Award for small surface mines by the Nevada Mining Association. Also
 in 2024, Hycroft was awarded the Mine Safety & Health Administration (MSHA) Certificate of Achievement in Safety.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ●
 Environmental:
 Through 2024, Hycroft maintained an impeccable environmental record and was recognized as stewards of successful reclamation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ●
 Balance
 Sheet: The Company ended the year with unrestricted cash of $49.6 million and total debt of $125.0 million. 
 
 

 Page 2
 
 

 

Operational
Highlights

 

 
 
 ●
 Exploration:
 The 2024 drill program was launched in February 2024 (the “2024 Drill Program”), to build on the high-grade silver dominant
 trends identified in late 2023. The objective of the 2024 Drill Program was to define the structural framework of these new trends,
 establish continuity and expand the Brimstone and Vortex trends, and identify new target areas of potential high-grade. All objectives
 were successful, and the 2024 drill program was expanded during the year with 9,058 meters of drilling being completed as of December
 31, 2024. Final assays from three holes were pending at year-end. In addition to extending the high-grade silver trends up and down-dip,
 the technical team has identified new target areas as potential extensions of these silver trends. With less than 10% of the Company’s
 land position explored, there is tremendous further exploration potential.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ●
 Technical
 Studies: During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company advanced the metallurgical and engineering work necessary for designing
 a sulfide milling operation including testing composite samples from around the ore body that represent the various material characteristics
 in the sulfide ore, crushing, grinding, and flotation work which has identified significant improvements in gold and silver flotation
 recoveries compared to the current technical report that increase the economic benefits to the project, identifying the optimal inputs
 and operating parameters for roasting, pressure oxidation, leaching, sulfuric acid generation, and power co-generation. During 2024,
 the Company also completed the future tailing storage facility designs needed to extend material storage capacity and comply with
 safety and environmental regulations for these facilities. Final metallurgical testwork for roasting will be completed mid-year as
 part of the trade-off studies to assess whether roasting technology could offer superior economics compared to pressure oxidation
 (“POX”) technology for the Hycroft Mine. Other technical work components to be completed in 2025 include process plant
 equipment selection, plant layout, water management, and other designs, with an anticipated technical report with economics being
 published in late 2025. Due to the potential significant quantity of by-product sulfuric acid expected to be generated from roasting
 the sulfide concentrate, the Company engaged a third-party specialist that completed a focused sulfuric acid market study that identified
 a viable market with potential customers and pricing assumptions. 
 
 

The
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024, was filed March 5, 2025, and is available at www.sec.gov/edgar.
See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” below.

 

 Page 3
 
 

 

About
Hycroft Mining Holding Corporation

 

Hycroft
Mining Holding Corporation is a U.S.-based gold and silver company exploring and developing the Hycroft Mine, one of the world’s
largest precious metals deposits located in northern Nevada, a Tier-1 mining jurisdiction. After a long history of oxide heap leaching
operations, the Company is focused on completing the technical studies to transition the Hycroft Mine into a large-scale milling operation
for processing the sulfide ore. In addition, the Company is engaged in a robust exploration drill program to unlock the full potential
of our expansive +64,000-acre land package, of which less than 10% has been explored. In 2023, Hycroft announced the discovery of a new
high-grade silver system within the known resource area and the delineation of two new high-grade silver trends. These discoveries represent
a significant new value driver for the Hycroft Mine that the Company is following up on with additional drilling in 2024.

 

For
further information, please contact: 

 

info@hycroftmining.com

www.hycroftmining.com

 

Cautionary
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

 

This
news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the United States Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included herein and public statements by our
officers or representatives, that address activities, events or developments that our management expects or anticipates will or may occur
in the future, are forward- looking statements, including but not limited to such things as future business strategy, plans and goals,
competitive strengths and expansion and growth of our business. The words “estimate”, “plan”, “anticipate”,
“expect”, “intend”, “believe” “target”, “budget”, “may”, “can”,
“will”, “would”, “could”, “should”, “seeks”, or “scheduled to”
and similar words or expressions, or negatives of these terms or other variations of these terms or comparable language or any discussion
of strategy or intention identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements address activities, events, or developments
that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future and are based on current expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to (i) risks related to changes in our operations at the Hycroft Mine, including risks associated
with the cessation of mining operations at the Hycroft Mine; uncertainties concerning estimates of mineral resources; risks related to
a lack of a completed feasibility study; and risks related to our ability to re- establish commercially feasible mining operations; (ii)
industry related risks including fluctuations in the price of gold and silver; the commercial success of, and risks related to, our exploration
and development activities; uncertainties and risks related to our reliance on contractors and consultants; availability and cost of
equipment, supplies, energy, or reagents. The exploration target does not represent, and should not be construed to be, an estimate of
a mineral resource or mineral reserve, as ranges of potential tonnage and grade (or quality) of the exploration target are conceptual
in nature; there has been insufficient exploration of the relevant property or properties to estimate a mineral resource; and it is uncertain
if further exploration will result in the estimation of a mineral resource. These risks may include the following, and the occurrence
of one or more of the events or circumstances alone or in combination with other events or circumstances may have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. Please see our “Risk Factors”
outlined in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, and other reports filed with the SEC for more information
about these and other risks. You are cautioned against attributing undue certainty to forward-looking statements. Although we have attempted
to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements,
there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. Although these forward-looking statements
were based on assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable when made, you are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and that actual results, performance, or achievements may differ materially from those made in or suggested
by the forward-looking statements in this news release. In addition, even if our results, performance, or achievements are consistent
with the forward-looking statements contained in this news release, those results, performance or achievements may not be indicative
of results, performance or achievements in subsequent periods. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements made in this news release speak only as of the date of those
statements. We undertake no obligation to update those statements or publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of those statements
to reflect future events or developments.

 

 Page 4