EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Lithium Americas Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 
 FORM 51-102F3 
 MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT
 ITEM 1. Name and Address of Company
 Lithium Americas Corp. ("Lithium Americas" or the "Company")
 300 - 900 West Hastings Street
 Vancouver, BC, V6C 1E5
 ITEM 2. Date of Material Change
 November 19, 2020
 ITEM 3. News Release
 A news release with respect to the contents of this report was issued on November 19, 2020 and was disseminated through the facilities of recognized newswire services. A copy of the news release was filed on SEDAR.
 ITEM 4. Summary of Material Change
 On November 19, 2020, the Company announced the departure of Dr. Michael Fischer from his position as a Director of the Company effective immediately.
 ITEM 5. Full Description of Material Change
 On November 19, 2020, the Company announced the departure of Dr. Michael Fischer from his position as a Director of the Company effective immediately. Mr. Fischer served as the nominee of Bangchak Corporation Public Company Ltd. ("Bangchak") since his election to the Board on May 7, 2020.
 The Company recently launched a recruitment process for new directors and expects to replace the vacancy on the Board of Directors created by Mr. Fischer's departure in due course.
 ITEM 6. Reliance on Subsection 7.1(2) of National Instrument 51-102
 This report is not being filed on a confidential basis.
 ITEM 7. Omitted Information
 There are no significant facts required to be disclosed herein which have been omitted.
 ITEM 8. Executive Officer
 The name and business number of the executive officer of the Company who is knowledgeable of the material change and this report is:
 Eduard Epshtein
 Chief Financial Officer300 - 900 West Hastings Street Vancouver, BC, V6C 1E51 (778) 656-5811
 
 ITEM 9. Date of Report
 November 20, 2020
 Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 This report contains "forward-looking information" and "forward-looking statements" (which we refer to collectively as forward-looking information) under the provisions of applicable securities legislation. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking information. Examples of forward-looking information in this report include the efforts to identify and retain a new director.
 Forward-looking information is based upon a number of factors and assumptions that, if untrue, could cause the actual results, performances or achievements of the Company to be materially different from future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by such information. Such information reflects the Company's current views with Forward-looking information is based upon a number of factors and assumptions that, if untrue, could cause the actual results, performances or achievements of the Company to be materially different from future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by such information. Such information reflects the Company's current views with respect to future events and is necessarily based upon a number of assumptions that, while considered reasonable by the Company today, are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies. Forward-looking information also involve risks, assumptions and other factors are set out in the Company's management discussion analysis and most recent annual information form, copies of which are available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
 Although the Company has attempted to identify important risks and assumptions, given the inherent uncertainties in such forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results to differ materially. Forward-looking information is made as of the date hereof and the Company does not intend, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or revise the forward-looking information contained in this news release, except as required by law. Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking information.
 - 2 -