EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT DATED JANUARY 15, 2021

 Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.1

FORM 51-102F3 MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT

 

 

 ITEM 1.

 Name and Address of Company

Lithium Americas Corp. (“Lithium Americas” or the “Company”) 300 - 900 West Hastings Street Vancouver, BC, V6C 1E5

 

 

 ITEM 2.

 Date of Material Change

January 15, 2021

 

 

 ITEM 3.

 News Release

A news release with respect to the contents of this report was issued on January 15, 2021 and was disseminated through the facilities of recognized newswire services. A copy of the news release was filed on SEDAR.

 

 

 ITEM 4.

 Summary of Material Change

On January 15, 2021, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) issued a positive Record of Decision (“ROD”) for the Company s proposed Thacker Pass lithium mine located in Humboldt County, Nevada.

 

 

 ITEM 5.

 Full Description of Material Change

The BLM has issued a positive ROD for the Company s proposed development of a lithium mine on the Thacker Pass project located in Humboldt County, Nevada. The ROD was published by the BLM on January 15, 2021.

The ROD represents the final step in the U.S. federal permitting process for the development and operation of a lithium mine on the Thacker Pass project. The Company continues to pursue the balance of the required government authorizations at a sub-national level, including water protection permit applications with the State of Nevada, which are currently under consideration.

 

 

 ITEM 6.

 Reliance on Subsection 7.1(2) of National Instrument 51-102

This report is not being filed on a confidential basis.

 

 

 ITEM 7.

 Omitted Information

There are no significant facts required to be disclosed herein which have been omitted.

 

 

 ITEM 8.

 Executive Officer

The name and business number of the executive officer of the Company who is knowledgeable of the material change and this report is:

Eduard Epshtein Chief Financial Officer300 - 900 West Hastings Street Vancouver, BC V6C 1E5 1 (778) 656-5811

 

 

 ITEM 9.

 Date of Report

January 18, 2021

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains “forward-looking information” and “forward-looking statements” (which we refer to collectively as forward-looking information) under the provisions of applicable securities legislation. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking information. Examples include the Company s expectations as to the development and permitting of the Thacker Pass lithium project.

Forward-looking information is based upon a number of factors and assumptions that, if untrue, could cause the actual results, performances or achievements of the Company to be materially different from future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by such information. Such information reflects the Company s current views with respect to future events and is necessarily based upon a number of assumptions that, while considered reasonable by the Company today, are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies. Forward-looking information also involve risks, assumptions and other factors are set out in the Company s management discussion analysis and most recent annual information form, copies of which are available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on the United States Securities and Exchange Commission s website at www.sec.gov.

Although the Company has attempted to identify important risks and assumptions, given the inherent uncertainties in such forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results to differ materially. Forward-looking information is made as of the date hereof and the Company does not intend, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or revise the forward-looking information contained in this news release, except as required by law. Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking information.

- 2 -