EX-99.1
2
d266957dex991.htm
EX-99.1

EX-99.1

 

 Exhibit 99.1 

 

 
General Motors and MP Materials Enter Long-Term Supply Agreement to Scale 
Rare Earth Magnet Sourcing and Production in the U.S. 
Rare earth materials sourced from Mountain Pass, California, will be manufactured into magnets at new 
MP Materials production facility in Fort Worth, Texas 
Rare earth magnets are critical components in GM Ultium Platform EV motors 
GM’s EV supply chain strategy prioritizes environmental sustainability and recyclability 
DETROIT AND LAS VEGAS – General Motors (NYSE: GM) and MP Materials (NYSE: MP) today announced the formation of a strategic collaboration to
develop a fully integrated U.S. supply chain for rare earth magnets. Under the long-term agreement, MP Materials will supply U.S.-sourced and manufactured rare earth materials, alloy and finished magnets for the electric motors used in the GMC
HUMMER EV, Cadillac LYRIQ, Chevrolet Silverado EV and more than a dozen models using GM’s Ultium Platform, with a gradual production ramp that begins in 2023. 
Neodymium-iron-boron (NdFeB) magnets are critical inputs that enable electric motors to transform electricity into motion. Although development of permanent
magnets began in the U.S., there is virtually no domestic capacity to produce sintered NdFeB magnets today. This strategic collaboration seeks to accelerate the restoration of the U.S. rare earth supply chain at commercial scale with high resiliency
and environmental sustainability. MP Materials owns and operates the Mountain Pass rare earth mine and processing facility in California, the only active
and scaled rare earth production site in America. Rare earth materials sourced from Mountain Pass will be transformed into metal, NdFeB alloy and magnets at a new production facility MP Materials today announced it will build in Fort Worth, Texas,
delivering an end-to-end, U.S. supply chain. “We are building a
resilient and sustainable EV manufacturing value chain in North America, from raw materials to cell manufacturing to electric drive motors and beyond, further accelerating GM’s vision to support a mass market for EVs,” said Shilpan Amin,
GM vice president, Global Purchasing and Supply Chain. “Our work with MP Materials is another bold step forward that will help ensure that we meet our goal to lead the EV industry in North America in more than just sales.” 
“Restoring the full rare earth supply chain to the United States at scale would not be possible without U.S. manufacturers like GM recognizing the
strategic consequence and acting with conviction,” said MP Materials Chairman and CEO, James Litinsky. “We are proud to welcome GM as the foundational automotive customer for our new magnetics facility and join forces with a company fully
aligned with our vision to reinvigorate the American manufacturing spirit.” GM and MP Materials have signed a binding agreement on terms and expect
to enter into a definitive supply agreement shortly. In addition, the two companies will look to collaboratively engage from a public policy perspective to seek policies that are supportive of the establishment of a secure, U.S. rare earth supply
chain. 

 Integrated recycling and environmental sustainability 
MP’s domestic supply chain spanning California and Texas will provide certainty of provenance, supply and sustainability. Mountain Pass is a closed-loop, zero-discharge rare earth production facility with a dry tailings process that recycles more than 1 billion liters of water per year. 
To optimize for efficiency and sustainability, waste generated during MP’s rare earth alloy and magnet manufacturing will be recycled back into the
process. GM and MP Materials will also explore the potential to further optimize production efficiency and conserve natural resources through novel recycling approaches based on
end-of-life, closed-loop principles. GM EV Milestones 
 

 
•
 
 Invest $35 billion in EV and AV product development by 2025 
 

 
•
 
 Launch more than 30 EVs globally through 2025 
 

 
•
 
 Sell more than 1 million EVs globally by 2025, earning EV market leadership in North America
 

 
•
 
 Drive first-generation Ultium cell costs 40 percent lower than those used in the Chevrolet Bolt EV; achieve
twice the energy density at 60 percent lower cost in the second generation 

 
•
 
 Rapidly scale EV manufacturing, with more than 50 percent of North America and China plants capable of EV
production by 2030 

 
•
 
 Double annual revenues from a five-year average of about $140 billion by the end of the decade, expand
margins, and grow EV revenue from about $10 billion in 2023 to approximately $90 billion annually by 2030 General
Motors (NYSE: GM) is a global company focused on advancing an all-electric future that is inclusive and accessible to all. At the heart of this strategy is the Ultium battery platform, which will
power everything from mass-market to high-performance vehicles. General Motors, its subsidiaries and its joint venture entities sell vehicles under the Chevrolet, Buick, GMC, Cadillac, Baojun and Wuling
brands. More information on the company and its subsidiaries, including OnStar, a global leader in vehicle safety and security services, can be found at https://www.gm.com. 
MP Materials (NYSE: MP) is the largest producer of rare earth materials in the Western Hemisphere. The Company owns and operates the Mountain Pass Rare
Earth Mine and Processing Facility (Mountain Pass), the only rare earth mining and processing site of scale in North America. MP Materials produced approximately 15% of the rare earth content consumed in the global market in 2020. Separated rare
earth elements are critical inputs for the magnets that enable the mobility of electric vehicles, drones, defense systems, wind turbines, robotics and many other high-growth, advanced technologies. More information is available at
https://mpmaterials.com/. # # # 
Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements: This press release may include “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S.
federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are any statements other than statements of historical fact. Forward-looking statements represent our current judgment about possible future events and are often identified by words such as
“aim,” “anticipate,” “appears,” “approximately,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “designed,” “effect,” “estimate,” “evaluate,”
“expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” “initiative,” “intend,” “may,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,” “priorities,”
“project,” “pursue,” “seek,” “should,” “target,” “when,” “will,” “would,” or the negative of any of those words or similar expressions. In making these statements, we
rely upon assumptions and analysis based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors we consider appropriate under the circumstances. We believe these judgments
are reasonable, but these statements are not guarantees of any future 

 
events or financial results, and our actual result may differ materially due to a variety of important factors, many of which are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, and our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or other factors that
affect the subject of these statements, except where we are expressly required to do so by law. CONTACTS: 
David Barnas General Motors Communications 
248-918-8946 
David.Barnas@gm.com Matt Sloustcher 
MP Materials 725.233.0537 
msloustcher@mpmaterials.com