EX-99.1
2
d864252dex991.htm
AUDITED BALANCE SHEET, AS OF MAY 4, 2020

Audited Balance Sheet, as of May 4, 2020

 
Table of Contents

 Exhibit 99.1 
Fortress Value Acquisition Corp. 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

 
 
PAGE
 

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
2
 

 Balance Sheet as of May 4, 2020
 
 
3
 

 Notes to Financial Statement
 
 
4
 

 1 

Table of Contents

 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Fortress Value Acquisition Corp. 
Opinion on the Financial Statement We have audited the
accompanying balance sheet of Fortress Value Acquisition Corp. (the “Company”) as of May 4, 2020 and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statement”). In our opinion, the financial statement presents
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of May 4, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
Basis for Opinion This financial statement is the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statement based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States) (“PCAOB”) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statement is free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part
of our audit we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion. Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statement, whether due
to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statement. Our audit also included evaluating the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statement. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
/s/ WithumSmith+Brown, PC We have served as the Company’s
auditor since 2020. New York, New York May 8, 2020

 2 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
BALANCE SHEET 
May 4, 2020 

 Assets:
 

 Current assets:
 

 Cash
 
$
1,813,618
 

 Prepaid expenses
 
 
478,341
 

 
 
 
 

 Total current assets
 
 
2,291,959
 

 Cash and cash equivalents held in Trust Account
 
 
345,000,000
 

 
 
 
 

 Total assets
 
$
347,291,959
 

 
 
 
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity:
 

 Current liabilities:
 

 Accounts payable
 
$
1,148,567
 

 Accrued expenses—related parties
 
 
3,247
 

 
 
 
 

 Total current liabilities
 
 
1,151,814
 

 Deferred underwriting commissions
 
 
12,075,000
 

 
 
 
 

 Total liabilities
 
 
13,226,814
 

 
 
 
 

 Commitments and Contingencies
 

 Class A common stock, $0.0001 par value; 32,906,514 shares subject to possible
redemption
 
 
329,065,140
 

 Stockholders’ Equity:
 

 Preferred stock, $0.0001 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized; none issued and
outstanding
 
 
— 
 

 Class A common stock, $0.0001 par value; 200,000,000 shares authorized; 1,593,486 issued and
outstanding (excluding 32,906,514 shares subject to possible redemption)
 
 
159
 

 Class F common stock, $0.0001 par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized; 8,625,000 shares
issued and outstanding
 
 
863
 

 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
5,011,169
 

 Accumulated deficit
 
 
(12,186
) 

 
 
 
 

 Total Stockholders’ Equity
 
 
5,000,005
 

 
 
 
 

 Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
 
$
347,291,959
 

 
 
 
 
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet. 
 3 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
1. Description of Organization and Business Operations 
Fortress Value Acquisition Corp. (the “Company”) is a newly organized blank check company incorporated in Delaware on
January 24, 2020. The Company was formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses that the Company has not yet
identified (“Business Combination”). Although the Company is not limited to a particular industry or geographic region for purposes of consummating a Business Combination, the Company intends to capitalize on the ability of its management
team to identify, acquire and operate a business that may provide opportunities for attractive risk-adjusted returns. The Company is an
emerging growth company and, as such, the Company is subject to all the risks associated with emerging growth companies. At May 4, 2020, the Company had not yet commenced operations. All activity through May 4, 2020 relates to the
Company’s formation and the initial public offering, which is described below. The Company will not generate any operating revenues until after the completion of a Business Combination, at the earliest. The Company will generate non-operating income in the form of interest income from the proceeds derived from the Initial Public Offering. The Company has selected December 31 as its fiscal year end. 
The registration statement for the Company’s Initial Public Offering was declared effective on April 29, 2020. On May 4, 2020,
the Company consummated its initial public offering (the “Initial Public Offering”) of 34,500,000 units (“Units” and, with respect to the Class A common stock included in the Units being offered, the “Public
Shares”), which included the issuance of 4,500,000 Units as a result of the underwriters’ exercise of their over-allotment option in full, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $345.0 million and incurring offering costs of
approximately $19.8 million, inclusive of approximately $12.1 million in deferred underwriting commissions (Note 5). 
Substantially concurrently with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Company consummated the private placement (“Private
Placement”) of 5,933,333 warrants (the “Private Placement Warrants”), at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant, with the Company’s sponsor, Fortress Acquisition Sponsor LLC (the “Sponsor”), generating gross
proceeds of $8.9 million (Note 4). Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement, $345.0 million
($10.00 per Unit) of the aggregate net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement was placed in a U.S.-based trust account (“Trust Account”) at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., maintained by
Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, acting as trustee. The proceeds held in the Trust Account will be invested in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set 
 4 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 
forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by
the Company meeting certain conditions of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and
(ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. At May 4, 2020, the Company had approximately $1.8 million
in cash held outside of the Trust Account. The Company’s management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of Private Placement Warrants, although
substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to complete a Business Combination successfully. The Company’s
initial Business Combination must be with one or more operating businesses or assets with a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the assets held in the Trust Account (net of amounts disbursed to management for working capital purposes, if any,
and excluding the amount of any deferred underwriting discount held in trust) at the time of the Company signing a definitive agreement in connection with its initial Business Combination. However, the Company will only complete a Business
Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment
company under the Investment Company Act 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. The Company will provide its stockholders of
Public Shares (“Public Stockholders”) with the opportunity to redeem all or a portion of their Public Shares upon the completion of a Business Combination either (i) in connection with a stockholder meeting called to approve the
Business Combination or (ii) by means of a tender offer. The decision as to whether the Company will seek stockholder approval of a Business Combination or conduct a tender offer will be made by the Company. If, however, stockholder approval of
the transaction is required by applicable law or stock exchange listing requirement, or the Company decides to obtain stockholder approval for business or other reasons, it will: (i) conduct the redemptions in conjunction with a proxy
solicitation pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which regulates the solicitation of proxies, and not pursuant to the tender offer rules; and (ii) file proxy materials
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public stockholders will be entitled to redeem their Public Shares for a pro rata portion of the amount in the Trust Account (initially approximately $10.00 per share), plus any pro
rata interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to the Company to pay for the Company’s tax obligations, calculated as of two business days prior to the consummation of the Business Combination. The per-share amount to be distributed to public stockholders who redeem their Public Shares will not be reduced by the deferred underwriting commissions the Company will pay to the underwriters (as discussed in Note
5). These Public Shares will be recorded at a redemption value and classified as temporary equity upon the completion of the Initial Public Offering, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification

 5 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 
(“ASC”) Topic 480 “Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity.” In such case, the Company will proceed with a Business Combination if the Company has net tangible assets of at
least $5,000,001 upon such consummation of a Business Combination and a majority of the shares voted are voted in favor of the Business Combination. If a stockholder vote is not required by applicable law or stock exchange listing requirements and
the Company does not decide to hold a stockholder vote for business or other reasons, the Company will, pursuant to its amended and restated certificate of incorporation, conduct the redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules of the SEC, and
file tender offer documents with the SEC prior to completing a Business Combination. Additionally, each public stockholder may elect to redeem their Public Shares without voting, and if they do vote, irrespective of whether they vote for or against
the proposed transaction. If the Company seeks stockholder approval in connection with a Business Combination, the initial stockholders (as defined below) have agreed to vote their Founder Shares (as defined in Note 4) and any Public Shares
purchased during or after the Initial Public Offering in favor of a Business Combination. In addition, the initial stockholders have agreed to waive their redemption rights with respect to their Founder Shares and Public Shares in connection with
the completion of a Business Combination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company’s amended and restated certificate of
incorporation provides that a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of such stockholder or any other person with whom such stockholder is acting in concert or as a “group” (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act),
will be restricted from redeeming its shares with respect to more than an aggregate of 15% or more of the Class A common stock sold in the Initial Public Offering, without the prior consent of the Company. 
The Company’s Sponsor, officers and directors (the “initial stockholders”) have agreed not to propose an amendment to the
Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation that would affect the substance or timing of the Company’s obligation to redeem 100% of its Public Shares if the Company does not complete a Business Combination, unless the
Company provides the public stockholders with the opportunity to redeem their Class A common stock in conjunction with any such amendment. 
If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months (May 2022) from the closing of the Initial Public Offering (the
“Combination Period”), the Company will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than ten business days thereafter, redeem 100% of the outstanding Public
Shares which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders’ rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any) and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such
redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining stockholder and the Company’s board of directors, proceed to commence a voluntary liquidation and thereby a formal dissolution of the Company, subject in each case to its obligations to
provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of applicable law. 
 6 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 In connection with the redemption of 100% of the Company’s outstanding Public Shares for
a portion of the funds held in the Trust Account, each holder will receive a full pro rata portion of the amount then in the Trust Account, plus any pro rata interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to the
Company to pay its taxes (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses). The initial stockholders have agreed to waive
their liquidation rights with respect to the Founder Shares if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period. However, if the initial stockholders should acquire Public Shares in or after the Initial Public
Offering, they will be entitled to liquidating distributions from the Trust Account with respect to such Public Shares if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period. The underwriters have agreed to waive their
rights to their deferred underwriting commission (see Note 5) held in the Trust Account in the event the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period and, in such event, such amounts will be included with the funds
held in the Trust Account that will be available to fund the redemption of the Company’s Public Shares. In the event of such distribution, it is possible that the per share value of the residual assets remaining available for distribution
(including Trust Account assets) will be only $10.00 per share initially held in the Trust Account (or less than that in certain circumstances). In order to protect the amounts held in the Trust Account, the Sponsor has agreed to be liable to the
Company, if and to the extent any claims by a third party for services rendered or products sold to the Company, or a prospective target business with which the Company has discussed entering into a transaction agreement, reduce the amount of funds
in the Trust Account. This liability will not apply with respect to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account or to any claims under the
Company’s indemnity of the underwriters of the Initial Public Offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Moreover, in the event that an executed
waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, the Sponsor will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third-party claims. The Company will seek to reduce the possibility that the Sponsor will have to indemnify the
Trust Account due to claims of creditors by endeavoring to have all third parties, service providers (other than the Company’s independent auditors), prospective target businesses or other entities with which the Company does business, execute
agreements with the Company waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the Trust Account. 
 7 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 An outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus was first detected in China
in December 2019 and continues to impact global markets. This coronavirus has resulted in closing borders, enhanced health screenings, healthcare service preparation and delivery, quarantines, cancellations, disruptions to markets, supply chains and
customer activity, as well as general concern and uncertainty. The impact of this coronavirus is affecting the economies of many nations, individual companies and markets in general and may continue to last for an extended period of time. 
Management is currently evaluating the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and while the virus could have
an adverse effect on the future financial results, cash flows and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of this financial statement. The financial statement does not include any adjustments
that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Basis of presentation The accompanying
financial statement is presented in U.S. dollars in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“ U.S. GAAP”) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. 
Emerging growth company The Company is
an “emerging growth company,” as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various
reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on
executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Further, section 102(b)(1) of
the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or
do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and
comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means
that when a standard 
 8 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 
is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private
companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of the Company’s financial statement with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the
extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accountant standards used. Use of estimates 
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Making
estimates requires management to exercise significant judgment. It is at least reasonably possible that the estimate of the effect of a condition, situation or set of circumstances that existed at the date of the balance sheet, which management
considered in formulating its estimate, could change in the near term due to one or more future confirming events. Accordingly, the actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. 
Offering costs Offering costs consist of
legal, accounting, underwriting fees and other costs incurred through the balance sheet date that are directly related to the Initial Public Offering totaled approximately $19.8 million, inclusive of approximately $12.1 million in deferred
underwriting commissions. Offering costs were charged to stockholders’ equity upon the completion of the Initial Public Offering. 
 9 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 Income taxes 
The Company complies with the accounting and reporting requirements of ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes,” which requires an asset and
liability approach to financial accounting and reporting for income taxes. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are computed for differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities that will result in future
taxable or deductible amounts, based on enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the
amount expected to be realized. ASC Topic 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by
taxing authorities. The Company’s management determined that the United States of America is the Company’s only major tax jurisdiction. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income
tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits and no amounts accrued for interest and penalties as of May 4, 2020. The Company is currently not aware of any issues under review that could result in significant payments, accruals or
material deviation from its position. The provision for income taxes was deemed to be de minimis for the period from January 24, 2020 (inception) through May 4, 2020. 
Class A common stock subject to possible redemption 
The Company accounts for its Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards
Codification (“ASC”) Topic 480 “Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity.” Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value.
Conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including Class A common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely
within the Company’s control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A common stock are classified as stockholders’ equity. The Company’s Class A common stock feature certain redemption rights that are
considered to be outside of the Company’s control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at May 4, 2020, 32,906,514 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption at the redemption amount
are presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders’ equity section of the Company’s balance sheet. Concentration of credit risk
 Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist of a cash account in a financial
institution which at times may exceed the Federal depository insurance coverage of $250,000. At May 4, 2020, the Company had not experienced losses on this account and management believes the Company is not exposed to significant risks on such
account. 
 10 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 Fair value of financial instruments 
The fair value of the Company’s assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures,” approximates the carrying amounts represented in the accompanying balance sheet, primarily due to their short-term nature. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a
material effect on the Company’s balance sheet. 3. Initial Public Offering 
On May 4, 2020, the Company sold 34,500,000 Units, including the issuance of 4,500,000 Units as a result of the underwriters’
exercise of their over-allotment option in full, at a price of $10.00 per Unit. Each Unit consists of one share of Class A common stock and one-third of one redeemable warrant (“Public
Warrant”). Each whole Public Warrant will entitle the holder to purchase one share of Class A common stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment (see Note 6). 
4. Related Party Transactions 
Founder Shares On January 31, 2020,
the Company issued an aggregate of 8,625,000 shares of Class F common stock to the Sponsor (the “Founder Shares”) in exchange for an aggregate capital contribution of $25,000. The Sponsor had agreed to forfeit an aggregate of up to
1,125,000 Founder Shares to the extent that the over-allotment option was not exercised in full by the underwriters. On May 4, 2020, the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option in full. As a result, the 1,125,000 Founder Shares were
no longer subject to forfeiture. The Founder Shares will automatically convert into Class A common stock upon the consummation of a Business Combination, or earlier at the option of the holder, on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment (see Note 6). 
 11 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 The initial stockholders have agreed not to transfer, assign or sell any of their Founder
Shares until the earliest of (a) one year after the completion of the initial Business Combination, (b) subsequent to the initial Business Combination, if the last reported sale price of the Class A common stock equals or exceeds
$12.00 per share (as adjusted) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after the initial Business Combination, and (c) following the completion of the initial
Business Combination, such future date on which the Company completes a liquidation, merger, stock exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction that results in all of the Company’s public stockholders having the right to exchange their
shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property. In April 2020, the Sponsor transferred 25,000 Founder Shares to an independent director of the Company, for the same per-share price initially
paid by the Sponsor. Subsequent to this transfer, the Sponsor holds 8,600,000 Founder Shares. Private Placement Warrants 
Substantially concurrently with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Sponsor purchased an aggregate 5,933,333 Private Placement
Warrants in the Private Placement. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one share of Class A common stock at $11.50 per share. A portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Private Placement Warrants were added to the
proceeds from the Initial Public Offering held in the Trust Account. If the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, the Private Placement Warrants will expire worthless. The Sponsor and the Company’s
officers and directors have agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of their Private Placement Warrants until 30 days after the completion of the Business Combination. 
Promissory Note—Related Party The
Company’s Sponsor loaned the Company an aggregate of $211,382 to cover expenses related to the Initial Public Offering pursuant to a promissory note. The promissory note was non-interest bearing,
unsecured and due on the earlier of December 31, 2020 and the closing of the Initial Public Offering. The Company repaid the promissory note on May 4, 2020. 
Office Space and Related Support Services 
Effective April 30, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement with an affiliate of the Sponsor to pay a monthly fee of $20,000 for
office space and related support services. Upon completion of the initial Business Combination or the Company’s liquidation, the Company will cease paying these monthly fees. As of May 4, 2020, the Company had $3,247 in accrued expenses
for services provided by related parties in connection with the aforementioned agreement. 
 12 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 Related Party Loans 
In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of our
officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required (“Working Capital Loans”). If the Company completes a Business Combination, the Company may repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds
of the Trust Account released to the Company. Otherwise, the Working Capital Loans may be repaid only out of funds held outside the Trust Account. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of proceeds
held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Except for the foregoing, the terms of such Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been
determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lender’s discretion, up to $1.5 million of
such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.50 per warrant. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. At May 4, 2020, no Working Capital Loans were outstanding. 
5. Commitments & Contingencies Registration
Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working
Capital Loans (and any Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) are entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration
rights agreement signed prior to the closing date of the Initial Public Offering. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, the
holders have certain “piggy-back” registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the consummation of a Business Combination. However, the registration rights agreement provides that the Company will not
permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until termination of the applicable lock-up period. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the
filing of any such registration statements. 
 13 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 Underwriting Agreement 
The Company granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the Initial Public Offering to
purchase up to 4,500,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the price paid by the underwriters in the Initial Public Offering. The underwriters exercised this over-allotment in full concurrently with the closing of the Initial
Public Offering. The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per unit, or $6.9 million paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. Additionally, a deferred underwriting discount of $0.35 per unit, or
approximately $12.1 million will be payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 
6. Stockholders’ Equity 
Class A Common Stock—The Company is authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of Class A common stock with a
par value of $0.0001 per share. Holders of the Company’s Class A common stock are entitled to one vote for each share on each matter on which they are entitled to vote. At May 4, 2020, there were 34,500,000 shares Class A common
stock issued and outstanding, including 32,906,514 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption. 
Class F Common Stock—The Company is authorized to issue 20,000,000 shares of Class F common stock with a
par value of $0.0001 per share. Holders of the Company’s Class F common stock are entitled to one vote for each share on each matter on which they are entitled to vote. The Class F common stock will automatically convert into
Class A common stock at the time of the consummation of the initial Business Combination, or earlier at the option of the holder, on a one-for-one basis. As of
May 4, 2020, there were 8,625,000 shares of Class F common stock outstanding. Only holders of the Founder Shares will have the
right to elect all of the Company’s directors prior to the initial Business Combination. Otherwise, holders of Class A common stock and Class F common stock will vote together as a single class on all matters submitted to a vote of
stockholders except as required by law or the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange then in effect. In the case that additional
Class A common stock, or equity-linked securities, are issued or deemed issued in excess of the amounts sold in the Initial Public Offering and related to the closing of the initial Business Combination, the ratio at which the Class F
common stock shall convert into Class A common stock will be adjusted (unless the holders of a majority of the outstanding Class F common stock agree to waive such anti-dilution adjustment with respect to any such issuance or deemed
issuance) so that the number of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of all Class F common stock will equal, in the aggregate, 20% of the sum of the total number of all common stock outstanding upon the completion of the Initial
Public Offering plus all Class A common stock and equity-linked securities issued or deemed issued in connection with the initial Business Combination, excluding any shares or equity-linked securities issued, or to be issued, to any seller in
the initial Business Combination. 
 14 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 Preferred Stock—The Company is authorized to issue 1,000,000 preferred stock with
a par value of $0.0001 per share. At May 4, 2020, there are no preferred stock issued or outstanding. Warrants—Public
Warrants may only be exercised for a whole number of shares. No fractional Public Warrants will be issued upon separation of the Units and only whole Public Warrants will trade. The Public Warrants will become exercisable on the later of (a) 30
days after the completion of a Business Combination and (b) 12 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering; provided in each case that the Company has an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the
Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the Public Warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available (or the Company permits holders to exercise their Public Warrants on a cashless basis and such cashless exercise is exempt
from registration under the Securities Act). The Company has agreed that as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 15 business days after the closing of the initial Business Combination, the Company will use its best efforts to file with
the SEC a registration statement covering the issuance of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the Public Warrants. The Company will use its best efforts to cause the same to become effective within 60 business days after
the closing of the initial Business Combination and to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement, and a current prospectus relating thereto, until the expiration or redemption of the warrants in accordance with the provisions of the
warrant agreement. If the Class A common stock, at the time of any exercise of a warrant, is not listed on a national securities exchange such that it satisfies the definition of a “covered security” under Section (18)(b)(1) of the
Securities Act, the Company may require warrant holders who exercise their warrants to do so on a “cashless basis” in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act or another exemption. The Public Warrants will expire five
years after the completion of a Business Combination or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. 
 15 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 The Private Placement Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants underlying the Units sold
in the Initial Public Offering, except that (i) the Private Placement Warrants and the Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the Private Placement Warrants will not be transferable, assignable or salable until 30 days after the
completion of a Business Combination, subject to certain limited exceptions, (ii) the Private Placement Warrants will be non-redeemable (except under scenario 2 below) so long as they are held by the
initial purchasers or such purchasers’ permitted transferees, (iii) the Private Placement Warrants may be exercised by the holders on a cashless basis, and (iv) the Private Placement Warrants and the Class A common stock issuable
upon exercise of the Private Placement Warrants are entitled to registration rights. If the Private Placement Warrants are held by someone other than the initial stockholders or their permitted transferees, the Private Placement Warrants will be
redeemable by the Company in all redemption scenarios and exercisable by such holders on the same basis as the Public Warrants. The
Company may call the Public Warrants for redemption: 

 
1.
 For cash: 

 
◾
 
 in whole and not in part; 
 

 
◾
 
 at a price of $0.01 per warrant 
 

 
◾
 
 upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption; and 
 

 
◾
 
 if, and only if, the last reported sale price of the Class A common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share
(as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date on
which the Company sends the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. 

 
2.
 For class A common stock (commencing 90 days after the warrants become exercisable): 
 

 
◾
 
 in whole and not in part; 
 

 
◾
 
 at $0.10 per warrant upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption provided that holders
will be able to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis prior to redemption and receive that number of shares of Class A common stock to be determined by reference to a table included in the warrant agreement, based on the redemption date
and the fair market value of Class A common stock; 

 
◾
 
 if, and only if, the last reported sale price of the Class A common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share
(as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) on the trading day prior to the date on which the Company sends the notice of redemption to warrant holders. 
 

 
◾
 
 if, and only if, the Private Placement Warrants are also concurrently exchanged at the same price (equal to a
number of shares of Class A common stock) as the outstanding Public Warrants; and 

 
◾
 
 if, and only if, there is an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of Class A
common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating thereto available throughout the 30-day period after written notice of redemption is given. 
 16 

Table of Contents

 FORTRESS VALUE ACQUISITION CORP. 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
 If the Company calls the Public Warrants for redemption, under scenario 1 above, management
will have the option to require all holders that wish to exercise the Public Warrants to do so on a “cashless basis,” as described in the warrant agreement. 
The exercise price and number of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants may be adjusted in certain circumstances
including in the event of a stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation. If the Company issues additional shares of common stock or equity-linked securities for capital raising purposes in connection with the closing of
the initial Business Combination at a newly issued price of less than $9.20 per share of common stock, the exercise price of the warrants will be adjusted to be equal to 115% of the newly issued price. Additionally, in no event will the Company be
required to net cash settle the warrants. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period and the Company liquidates the funds held in the Trust Account, holders of warrants will not receive any of such
funds with respect to their warrants, nor will they receive any distribution from the Company’s assets held outside of the Trust Account with the respect to such warrants. In such a situation, the warrants would expire worthless. 
7. Subsequent Events 
The Company evaluated subsequent events and transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date through the date that the financial
statement was available to be issued and has concluded that all such events that would require adjustment or disclosure have been recognized or disclosed. 
 17