EX-99.1
2
d160713dex991.htm
EX-99.1

EX-99.1

 

 Exhibit 99.1 
MP Materials Announces Proposed Green Convertible Senior Notes Offering 
MOUNTAIN PASS, Calif., March 22, 2021 – MP Materials Corp. (NYSE: MP) (“MP Materials” or the “Company”) today
announced that it plans to offer, subject to market and other conditions, $500 million principal amount of its Green Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the “notes”) through a private offering to qualified institutional buyers
pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). MP Materials expects to grant the initial purchasers an option to purchase, exercisable within the 30-day
period immediately following the pricing date of the offering, up to an additional $75 million principal amount of notes. The notes will be senior
unsecured obligations of MP Materials, and interest will be payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on October 1, 2021. The notes will mature on April 1, 2026, unless earlier converted,
redeemed or repurchased. In certain circumstances and during certain periods, the notes may be converted into cash, shares of MP Materials’ common stock (the “common stock”), or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at MP
Materials’ election. MP Materials intends to allocate an amount equal to the net proceeds from the offering of the notes to existing or future
investments in, or the financing or refinancing of, eligible “green projects” of MP Materials. Eligible green projects are intended to reduce the Company’s environmental impact and/or enable the production of low-carbon technologies. MP Materials aims to achieve a level of allocation for eligible green projects which matches the amount of such net proceeds. Pending such allocation of the net proceeds to eligible green
projects, MP Materials intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the notes for general corporate purposes. The notes and the shares of common
stock issuable upon conversion of the notes have not been, and will not be, registered under the Securities Act, or under any state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States without registration under, or an applicable
exemption from, the registration requirements. This press release is not an offer to sell, nor is it a solicitation of an offer to buy, these securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an
offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any state or any jurisdiction. It is issued pursuant to Rule 135c under the Securities Act. 
About MP Materials MP Materials Corp. (NYSE: MP) is the
largest producer of rare earth materials in the Western Hemisphere. With over 300 employees, the Company owns and operates Mountain Pass, an iconic American industrial asset, which is the only rare earth mining and processing site of scale in the
Western Hemisphere and currently produces approximately 15% of global rare earth content. Separated rare earth elements are critical inputs for the magnets that enable the mobility of electric vehicles, drones, defense systems, wind turbines,
robotics and many other high-growth, advanced technologies. MP Materials’ integrated operations at Mountain Pass uniquely combine low production costs with
best-in-class environmental standards, thereby restoring American leadership to a critical industry with a strong commitment to sustainability. 
Forward-Looking Statements 
Certain statements included in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions
under the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of the words such as “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “forecast,”
“intend,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “seek,” “target,” or similar expressions that predict or indicate future events or trends or that are not statements of historical matters.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, expectations regarding the proposed notes offering and the use of proceeds therefrom. These statements are based on various assumptions, whether or not identified in this press
release, and on the current expectations of MP Materials’ management and are not predictions of actual performance. These forward-looking statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to serve as, and must not be
relied on by any investor as, a guarantee, an assurance, a prediction or a definitive statement of fact or probability. Actual events and circumstances are difficult or impossible to predict and will differ from assumptions. Many actual events and
circumstances are beyond the control of MP Materials. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of 

 
risks and uncertainties, including: risks related to the proposed notes offering, including the effect of the capital markets on the offering and our ability to satisfy the closing conditions to
the offering; unanticipated costs or delays associated with our Stage II optimization project; uncertainties relating to our commercial arrangements with Shenghe Resources (Singapore) International Trading Pte. Ltd., an affiliate of Shenghe
Resources Holding Co., Ltd., a global rare earth company listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange; the ability to convert current commercial discussions with customers for the sale of rare earth oxide products into contracts; potential changes in
China’s political environment and policies; fluctuations in demand for, and prices of, rare earth minerals and products; uncertainties relating to the COVID-19 pandemic; the intense competition within the
rare earths mining and processing industry; uncertainties regarding the growth of existing and emerging uses for rare earth products; potential power shortages at the Mountain Pass facility; increasing costs or limited access to raw materials that
may adversely affect our profitability; fluctuations in transportation costs or disruptions in transportation services; inability to meet individual customer specifications; diminished access to water; uncertainty in our estimates of rare earth
oxide reserves; uncertainties regarding our ability to vertically integrate into further downstream processing and reach full revenue potential; risks associated with work stoppages; a shortage of skilled technicians and engineers; loss of key
personnel; risks associated with the inherent dangers involved in mining activity; risks associated with events outside of our control, such as natural disasters, wars or health epidemics or pandemics; risks related to technology systems and
security breaches; risks associated with our intellectual property rights; ability to compete with substitutions for rare earth minerals; ability to maintain satisfactory labor relations; risks relating to extensive and costly environmental
regulatory requirements; and those risk factors discussed in MP Materials’ Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 22, 2021 under the heading “Risk Factors” and other documents
filed by MP Materials with the SEC. There may be additional risks that MP Materials does not presently know or that MP Materials currently believes are immaterial that could also cause actual results to differ from those contained in the
forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements reflect MP Materials’ expectations, plans or forecasts of future events and views as of the date of this press release. MP Materials anticipates that subsequent events and
developments will cause MP Materials’ assessments to change. However, while MP Materials may elect to update these forward looking statements at some point in the future, MP Materials specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, unless
required by applicable law. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing MP Materials’ assessments as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release. Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed upon
the forward-looking statements. CONTACTS 

Investors:
 
Media:

Martin Sheehan
 
Matt Sloustcher

IR@mpmaterials.com
 
media@mpmaterials.com
 Source: MP Materials Corp. 
 2