EX-99.1
2
tm2430312d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

McEwen Copper
Secures Environmental Permit 

For Construction
and Operation of Los Azules

 

TORONTO, December 3rd,
2024 - McEwen Copper Inc., a subsidiary of McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX), is pleased to announce the approval of the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for its Los Azules copper project. The Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which is the ministerial
resolution approving the EIA, is a key permitting milestone on the way to feasibility, construction and future operation.

 

This EIS, which
is issued by the San Juan Provincial Government's Ministry of Mines, highlights the support for copper mining in the pro-mining province
of San Juan.

 

Since submitting
the EIA documentation in April 2023, which was compiled by the international engineering and consulting company Knight Piesold and
supported by 22 subject matter experts from San Juan, the Ministry of Mining and 14 public and private institutions comprising the Evaluation
Committee have thoroughly reviewed over three thousand pages of the EIA and included a process of public consultation and a site
visit to the project. This rigorous process ensures the project's environmental viability and establishes a solid foundation for responsible
development.

 

Completing the
evaluation process required significant work from our internal team and specialized consultants. McEwen Copper extends its sincere gratitude
to everyone whose collaboration has been essential to meeting the highest technical and environmental standards. We look forward to their
continued partnership in the following stages of the project.

 

Robert McEwen,
CEO and Founder of McEwen Mining stated: "Our commitment to modern, sustainable, and regenerative mining practices at Los
Azules is reflected in our PEA and EIA, and we continue this work through our upcoming definitive feasibility study. We thank the 14
institutions for their work, whose efforts helped secure this key environmental permit."

 

Michael Meding,
Vice President and GM of McEwen Copper and General Manager of the Los Azules Project, added: "This milestone propels Los Azules
forward and highlights its transformative potential for the province and Argentina's mining industry. As we advance, sustainability and
community engagement will remain at the heart of our project development."

 

Strengthening
Community Partnerships and Sustainability Commitments

 

Los Azules has
built a strong partnership with the Calingasta community, fostering mutual trust and collaboration. McEwen Copper reaffirms its commitment
to sustainable regional development by incorporating local perspectives. Los Azules distinguishes itself through its focus on sustainability.
The project is designed to operate on renewable electric energy and achieve carbon neutrality by 2038. Its innovative process design
ensures one of the lowest water footprints in the mining sector, aligning with international best practices; Los Azules aims for excellence
in environmental stewardship.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 McEwen Mining Inc.
 
 Page 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

Next Steps:
Toward Feasibility and Construction

 

With the EIA approval
in place, Los Azules is advancing towards publishing a definitive feasibility study, expected in the first half of 2025, with the potential
start of construction as early as 2026, further strengthening McEwen Copper's position on the forefront of sustainable mining and
as an important driver of economic and social development in San Juan.

 

About McEwen
Copper

 

McEwen Copper is
a well-funded, private company that owns 100% of the large and of the advanced-stage Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina,
and the Elder Creek copper-gold project in Nevada, USA.

 

Los Azules is one
of the largest and most promising copper projects worldwide, aiming to produce low-carbon copper that will position McEwen Copper as
a leader in providing critical metals for the global energy transition. The project is being developed in partnership with strategic
partners such as Stellantis, a global leader in vehicle manufacturing, and Nuton, a Rio Tinto venture, specialized in advanced technologies
for efficient and sustainable copper extraction.

 

About Los Azules

 

Located in the
province of San Juan, Argentina, the Los Azules Project is one of the largest undeveloped copper deposits globally, supporting the energy
transition through sustainable practices. Situated 3,600 meters above sea level in the Andes Mountains, it is 129 kilometers from Villa
Calingasta, 250 kilometers from San Juan City, and just three kilometers from the Chilean border.

 

Los Azules was
ranked in the top 10 largest undeveloped copper deposits in the world by Mining Intelligence in 2022. Los Azules is designed to be distinctly
different from a conventional copper mine by consuming significantly less water, emitting much lower carbon, progressing towards carbon
neutrality by 2038, and being powered by 100% renewable electricity once in operation. The updated Preliminary Economic Assessment (PEA)
released in June 2023 projects a long life of mine, a short 3.2 years payback period, low $1.07/lb Cu production cost,
high annual copper production, a 21.2% after-tax IRR and a $2.7 billion after-tax NPV8% at $3.75/lb Cu. For more
details about the Los Azules PEA, click here.

 

Updated copper
resources of 10.9 billion pounds at grade 0.40% Cu (Indicated category) and an additional 26.7 billion pounds at
grade 0.31% Cu (Inferred category) support an initial mine life of 27 to 30 years, emphasizing Los Azules' strategic importance
in the production of this critical mineral for electrification and global sustainability.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 McEwen Mining Inc.
 
 Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

CAUTION
CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This
news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as of the
date of this news release, are McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations, or beliefs
as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions
that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties,
risks, and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual
results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties
that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking
statements and information include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks,
political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the Company to receive or receive in
a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations
and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental
risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, foreign exchange volatility, foreign exchange controls,
foreign currency risk, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included
herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements
or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31st, 2023, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three
months ended March 31st, 2024, June 30th, 2024, and September 30th, 2024, and other filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties
and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and
information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The
NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which
has been prepared by the management of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN
MINING

 

McEwen
Mining Inc. is a gold and silver producer with operations in Nevada (USA), Canada, Mexico, and Argentina. The company owns 46.4% of McEwen
Copper, which develops the large, advanced-stage Los Azules copper project. Los Azules aims to become Argentina's first regenerative
copper mine.

 

Focused
on enhancing productivity and extending the life of its assets, the Company's goal is to increase its share price and provide investor
yield. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, has a personal investment in the companies of US$225 million. His annual salary is US$1.

 

McEwen
Mining's shares are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) under the symbol "MUX".

 

Want News Fast?

Subscribe to our
email list by clicking here:
https://www.mcewenmining.com/contact-us/#section=followUs

and receive news
as it happens!

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 McEwen Mining Inc.
 
 Page 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WEB
 SITE 
 
 SOCIAL
 MEDIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 www.mcewenmining.com
 
 
 McEwen
 Mining
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 
 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewen-mining-inc-
 
 
 
 
 CONTACT
 INFORMATION
 
 Twitter:
 twitter.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 
 150
 King Street West 
 
 Instagram:
 
 instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 
 Suite 2800,
 PO Box 24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toronto,
 ON, Canada 
 
 McEwen
 Copper
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/
 mcewencopper
 
 
 
 M5H
 1J9 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 
 
 Twitter:
 twitter.com/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 Relationship
 with Investors: 
 
 Instagram:
 
 instagram.com/mcewencopper 
 
 
 
 (866)-441-0690
 Toll free line
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (647)-258-0395
 
 
 Rob
 McEwen
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mcewenrob 
 
 
 
 Mihaela
 Iancu ext. 320 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24
 
 
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 Twitter:
 
 twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 McEwen Mining Inc.
 
 Page 4