EX-99.1
2
tm222866d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

McEwen
Mining: CFO on Temporary Medical Leave

 

TORONTO, January 11,
2022 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) reports that Anna Ladd-Kruger, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer,
is temporarily on leave for health reasons. She is expected to return to regular duties in the near future. During Mrs. Ladd-Kruger’s
absence, other executive officers of the Company will assume her duties, including Segun Odunuga CPA, CA, MBA, Vice President, Corporate
Controller, who will take responsibility for the management of the financial team and who will act as temporary principal financial officer
until further notice.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news release contains certain forward-looking
statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 and other filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties
and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and
information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not
accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by the management of
McEwen Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified gold and silver
producer and explorer focused in the Americas with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also has a large exposure
to copper through its subsidiary McEwen Copper, owner of the giant Los Azules copper deposit in Argentina.

 

 
 CONTACT INFORMATION:
 
 
 
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll-Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter: twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9