EX-99.1
2
a19-7402_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
McEWEN MINING CONFERENCE CALL
 
TORONTO, March 28, 2019 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) Rob McEwen is inviting all fellow shareholders and investors to participate in a conference call to discuss why we did our recent US$25 million offering and to provide an overview of operations year to date and expectations for the balance of the year.
 
According to securities rules concerning public offerings, the call needs to be hosted two trading days after the close of the offering. The conference call will be held on Tuesday, April 2nd, at 11:00 am EDT.
 
Questions can be asked directly by participants over the telephone or can be emailed in advance to info@mcewenmining.com. The call will be chaired by Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner.
 

 

Toll Free (US & Canada): 

1 (844) 630-9911 

Tuesday April 2nd, 2019 at 

Outside US & Canada: 

1 (210) 229-8828 

11 am EDT 

Conference ID Number: 

5572459 

 

Webcast Link: 

https://edge.media-server.com/m6/p/p2hdjhrb 

 
An archived replay of the webcast will be available for one week after it takes place. Access the replay using the link https://edge.media-server.com/m6/p/p2hdjhrb or calling (855)-859-2056 (North America) / (404)-537-3406 (International), Conference ID Number 5572459.
 
ABOUT MCEWEN MINING
 
McEwen has the goal to qualify for inclusion in the S&P 500 Index by creating a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas. McEwen’s principal assets consist of: the San José mine in Santa Cruz, Argentina (49% interest); the Black Fox mine in Timmins, Canada; the Fenix Project in Mexico; the Gold Bar mine in Nevada; and the large Los Azules copper project in Argentina, advancing towards development.
 
McEwen has approximately 346 million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 23% of the shares.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. The Company’s dividend policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board of Directors and is subject to change based on certain factors such as the capital needs of the Company and its future operating results. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements
 

 
McEwen Mining Inc.
 
1

 

or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 

CONTACT INFORMATION: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mihaela Iancu Investor Relations (647)-258-0395 ext 320 info@mcewenmining.com Christina McCarthy Corporate Development & Investor Relations (647)-258-0395 ext 390 

 

Website: www.mcewenmining.com Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining 

 

150 King Street West Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24 Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5H 1J9 (866)-441-0690 

 
2