EX-99.1
2
a12-16462_3ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

July 20, 2012
 
Dear Shareholders,
 
Please find below the El Gallo Complex development update and the McEwen Mining community story.
 
Key development highlights over the past two weeks are:
 
· Crushers commissioned
· Initial crushed mineralization being placed on the heap leach pad
· Heap leach pad expansion nears completion
· Installation of electro-winning cells complete
 
To view the El Gallo Development Photo Update, please click here.
To view the McEwen Mining Community Story, please click here.
 

For further information contact: 

 

 
Jenya Meshcheryakova
Investor Relations
Tel: (647) 258-0395 ext 410
Toll Free: (866) 441-0690
Fax: (647) 258-0408 

 
Mailing Address
181 Bay Street Suite 4750
Toronto ON M5J 2T3
P.O. Box 792
E-mail: info@mcewenmining.com 
 
If you no longer want to receive announcements from us, please do not reply to this e-mail. Instead simply click here.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 MCEWENMINING
 MUX School Teacher and Mother of Two Becomes Country Manager of Mexico “At
 McEwen Mining, one has an opportunity to climb the ladder based on skills and
 work quality. I thank Rob and the Management Team for allowing me to show my
 best and hence be able to provide more for my family,” said Euridice
 Gonzales, Country Manager, Mexico. Euridice Gonzalez Country Manager, Mexico
 - McEwen Mining Euridice Gonzales stands just over five feet tall, yet her
 enthusiasm and driven personality makes her stand much taller to the
 challenges at our El Gallo Complex (our up-and-coming mine) in Sinaloa state,
 Mexico. As our newly minted Country Manager, Mexico, Euridice is one of only
 a handful of women in senior leadership positions in the Mexican mining sector.
 At McEwen Mining she is responsible for key issues at El Gallo including
 hiring, operation cost management, safety, and relationships with the
 community and government, tax, permitting and the list goes on and on. This
 year is her tenth year with McEwen Mining and our predecessor companies. Her
 story is just one of many stories of long-term employees who have helped our
 company grow and in turn have grown with us. In 2001, Euridice, a
 school-teacher with 2 daughters, saw McEwen Mining’s job posting for a Process
 Assistant published in a local newspaper. The job required both computer
 skills and good grasp of the English language—both of which she had (we
 quickly discovered that the skills of a teacher can also be invaluable when
 managing people at a mine site). A quickly emerging sector in Mexico,
 Euridice realized that the mining and mineral exploration sector could offer
 her rapid career growth and opportunities not previously available. Without
 any experience in the industry, Euridice decided to take a chance and drive
 directly to the mine site. Upon arrival, the Human Resource Manager explained
 that working for McEwen Mining would not be easy, considering the mine is
 completely isolated from the city, and takes 60 minutes to reach by road.
 During the interview, Euridice also learned that the company offered
 opportunity for advancement, based on skills and job performance of the
 employee. Euridice quickly accepted her first position with McEwen Mining as
 Process Assistant. Looking back at her 10-year journey, Euridice has done it
 all. She started by translating reports into English and managing documents
 at the mine, she progressed to assisting the geologists in map preparation
 and assay lab information gathering. Next, Euridice had the opportunity to
 support the warehouse by monitoring stock levels and costs of supplies such
 as diesel, cyanide, lime, oils, gases, etc. Once she had the warehouse under
 control, Euridice was assigned to prepare the daily lab reports for the
 McEwen Mining headquarters. Finally, as an Internal General Manager, Euridice
 got involved with mining permits, taxes, salaries, machinery maintenance,
 organization of the mine and relations with the communities. Euridice’s
 excellent performance in every aspect of the business, has allowed her to
 develop the necessary skills and knowledge to be appointed Country Manager,
 Mexico. At McEwen Mining we are proud that our management team, regardless of
 experience or education, each have significant exposure to numerous aspects
 of our business. It is how we learn to appreciate the big picture. McEwen
 Mining is thrilled to have Ms. Gonzales as part of its Management Team. Her
 hard work and dedication have contributed to her success (and in turn ours).
 McEwen Mining’s corporate philosophy is to challenge and reward devoted
 employees like Euridice. We are proud to share this story about a teacher
 from a small Mexican town who took a leap of faith and worked hard to
 successfully become Country Manager with McEwen Mining. Email us at jobs@
 mcewenmining.com if you are interested in taking on the challenge.
 MCEWENMINING MUX www.mcewenmining.com | 1.866.441.0690 |
 info@mcewenmining.com 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 MUX El Gallo
 Complex Development Photo Update July 20, 2012 MCEWEN MINING 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 2 Crushing
 Plant Assembly 1 - Cone Crushers 2 - Vibrating Screens 3 - Lime Silo 4 -
 Stackers 4 3 2 1 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 3 Commissioning
 the crushers. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 4 Commissioning
 the crushers and stockpiling mineralization for processing. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 5 Loading
 material for heap leach pad. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 6 Loading
 material for heap leach pad. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 7 Heap leach
 pad expansion. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 8 Heap leach
 pad expansion nearly complete. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 9 Mining at
 Samanegio open pit continues. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 10 Installation
 of electro-winning cells complete. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 11 New fence
 around process ponds. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 12 Assay lab
 expansion. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 MUX For further
 information please contact: Jenya Meshcheryakova Investor Relations Tel:
 (647) 258-0395 x 410 Toll Free: (866) 441- 0690 Fax: (647) 258-0408 Email:
 info@mcewenmining.com MCEWEN MINING