EX-99.1
2
a13-20727_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

Exhibit 99.1

 
 
 
 
 
 McEwen Mining has continued its
 efforts to support communities surrounding the El Gallo mine in Sinaloa,
 Mexico. As part of a community program, the company began installing
 computers equipped with wireless internet access in the village of El Valle,
 the largest town near the El Gallo mine. El Valle is home to 950 people and
 was previously without public internet access. Located in the town’s public
 library, the computers provide convenience and accessibility for local
 students and people in the community. The internet-equipped computers are
 available for anyone in the area to use at no cost. The donation was designed
 to promote education and learning. McEWEN MINING BEGINS ROLLOUT OF FREE
 COMMUNITY INTERNET ACCESS NEAR THE EL GALLO MINE Page 1 of 1 Sheena Scotland
 | info@mcewenmining.com | 1.866.441.0690 M McEwen Mining held a ceremony on
 September 2nd to celebrate the installation of the new computers and
 internet. The celebration was well attended, with more than 100 people,
 including students, media, McEwen Mining employees, and the mayor of Mocorito
 Municipality (El Valle is part of Mocorito Municipality), Gloria Himelda.
 During the celebration the students were invited to try out the new
 computers, which had been set up for the ceremony. The company is planning to
 expand this program to other villages near the El Gallo mine. The program
 will focus on one town each month for the next 12 months. McEwen Mining would
 like to thank the group of MBA students from the Schulich School of Business in
 Toronto, Canada, who developed the idea for this component of our social
 responsibility program. The MBA students worked with the company earlier in
 the year as part of their graduate program. The group members included Hardev
 Randhawa, Jaime Marquez Mares Ramos, Lendl Mendes, Pan He, Paul Ratte, Rafay
 Salman, Sarang Bhusari and Sylvia Palka. September 12, 2013 MCEWEN MINING MUX
 Glorai Himelda, Mocorito Municipal Mayor and Euridice Gonzalez, McEwen Mining
 Country Manager, show local students the new computers at the celebration
 ceremony. Rob receiving a certificate of recognition from the Schulich MBA
 group.