EX-99.1
2
tm2528426d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

Los Azules Feasibility Study Confirms Economically
Robust Copper Project

With Leading ESG Performance

 

TORONTO, ON, October 7, 2025 –
McEwen Copper Inc., 46.4% owned by McEwen Inc. (NYSE, TSX: MUX) is pleased to announce positive results from the independent
Feasibility Study (FS) for its 100%-owned Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina.

 

The FS confirms Los Azules as a long-life,
low-cost producer of high-purity copper cathodes with strong economic returns and sustainability. The project design advances Los
Azules toward construction readiness within a framework that reduces its environmental footprint. Project risk has been further reduced
through a strategic collaboration agreement with IFC to potentially lead debt financing and additional funding proposals for infrastructure
and construction.

 

With these results, Los Azules is positioned
to become a supplier of responsibly produced copper, critical to the global energy transition towards a low-carbon sustainable future.

 

“The Los Azules Feasibility Study
is more than a technical milestone - it’s a blueprint for the future of copper mining. We have delivered a plan for a long-life
asset that will play a role in the world’s clean-energy transition. Copper is the foundation of electrification and the modern
world, and Los Azules is ready to contribute to that global supply chain - responsibly, efficiently, and profitably,” said
Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner of McEwen Inc.

 

“With this Feasibility Study, our
team has transformed the geological potential of Los Azules into a clear, actionable development plan. This work gives us confidence
in the project’s design, costs, and schedule, providing the foundation for the next stage of growth.

 

“Having significant experience with
large-scale construction and mining operations in Argentina, I am confident that we have the right plan, the right team, and the
right partnerships to develop Los Azules. Together with our local communities and government partners, we aim to create Argentina’s
first regenerative copper mine - a model for responsible and innovative mining,” said Michael Meding, Vice President
of McEwen Copper and General Manager of Los Azules.

 

This press release starts with the FS Highlights
below, followed by Footnotes, a Glossary of Terms, Units and Abbreviations and continues with a detailed account of
the study in a Technical Appendix.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

FS Highlights

 

Simple Takeaways

 

·Economics
 After-tax(1):

 
 NPV(8%)
 $2.9B
 
 IRR
 19.8%
 
 Payback Period
 3.9 yrs
 
 Initial Capital
 $3.17B
 
 

·Copper
 Cathode Production(2):

 
 Average Years 1–5
 204,800 tonnes per year (451M
 lbs/yr)
 
 Life of Mine
 21 years
 
 Average Production
 148,200 t/yr (327M lbs/yr)
 
 

·Costs:

 
 C1 cash cost
 $1.71/lb
 
 AISC
 $2.11/lb
 
 

·Scale
 – Reserves and Resources(3):

Mineral Reserves

 
 -      Proven & Probable
 10.2B lbs Cu (1.02 B tonnes
 at 0.45% Cu)
 
 

Mineral Resources (exclusive
of Reserves)

 
 -      Measured & Indicated
 5.4B lbs Cu (0.97 B tonnes
 at 0.26% Cu)
 
 -      Inferred
 20.0B lbs Cu (4.24 B tonnes at 0.21% Cu)
 
 

·Capital
 Intensity Using:

 
 LOM Capital & Production
 $1,600/t Cu
 
 
 
 
 Initial Capital & Avg. Annual Production
 $20,200/t Cu per yr
 
 

Designed for Low Impact

 

·Leach
 + SX/EW process produces 99.99% copper cathodes (LME Grade A)
 on site (no smelter required).

 

·Project
 design provides:

-72% lower mine-to-metal carbon
 intensity than industry average for mine-to-metal

-100% renewable power(4) (wind,
 hydro, solar)

-74% less water use than conventional
 milling

-No tailings dam

 

·Carbon-neutral
 (Scopes 1 & 2) goal by 2038.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 2 
 
 

 

 

De-risked Regulatory Status

 

·Environmental
 Impact Statement EIA (Environmental Permit) for construction and operation was approved by
 the San Juan Provincial Government's Ministry of Mines in December, 2024.

·Accepted
 into Argentina’s Large Investment Incentive Regime (RIGI) in September,
 2025, providing tax, foreign exchange and customs stability for 30 years, legal certainty,
 foreign exchange regulations allowing to leave export proceeds abroad in increasing steps
 that will reach 100% by the time the project starts exports and access to international arbitration
 in case of disputes.

 

Ownership & Partners

 

·Ownership:           McEwen
 Inc. 46.4%, Stellantis 18.3%, Nuton (Rio Tinto) 17.2%,

Rob McEwen 12.7%, Victor
Smorgon Grp 3%, Others 2.4%.

 

·Preliminary
 finance proposals from Tier-1 OEMs (Komatsu, Sandvik & others), YPF
 Luz, European ECAs, and a collaboration agreement with IFC(5) to
 align with IFC’s ESG standards and for potential financing. Indicative proposals could
 support $1.1B+(6) in equipment and infrastructure financing.

 

Future Growth Opportunities Beyond the FS

 

·Nuton®
 leaching technology (Rio Tinto venture) could allow processing of primary ores with
 the existing infrastructure (indicative recoveries >76%), or a Conventional
 Concentrator could also provide higher copper recoveries, plus recover gold and silver
 as well. Either process could extend mine life by 30+ years by economically treating
 primary sulfides. Neither of these opportunities are included in the FS base case.

·Exploration
 has shown that there are four porphyry targets near the Los Azules deposit that could provide
 further extension to the mine life. Exploration of the newly identified targets will start
 in Q4 2025. High-priority targets near Los Azules include Tango, Porfido Norte, Franca, and
 Mercedes.

 

Timeline & Next Steps

 

·FS
 NI 43-101 Technical Report to be filed: within 45 days(7).

·Water
 concession: application under review.

·Construction
 target: 2026 → SX/EW startup: 2029 → First copper:
 2030.

 

Footnotes to Highlights

 

(1) NI 43-101 feasibility
study using a copper price of $4.35/lb or $9,592/ tonne for cash flow modeling.

 

(2) Average copper
recovery is 70.8% over the life of mine.

 

(3) For additional
details on the calculation of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves see Section 3 of the Technical Appendix, Mineral Resource &
Reserve Estimates.

 

(4) Power supply 100%
renewable, with 48% lower electricity demand than a conventional concentrator.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 3 
 
 

 

 

(5) Collaboration
agreement signed with IFC to align with IFC’s ESG standards for potential future financing, an important milestone in
McEwen Copper’s broader financing strategy.

 

(6) Preliminary financing
proposals from Tier-1 OEMs, YPF Luz, and European ECAs could provide $1.1B+ in equipment and infrastructure support.

 

(7) The FS NI 43-101
Technical Report will be filed within 45 days on SEDAR and McEwen Inc.’s website at https://www.mcewenmining.com/investor-relations/reports-and-filings.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN INC.

 

McEwen Inc. shares trade on both the NYSE
and TSX under the ticker MUX.

 

It provides shareholders with exposure to a growing
base of gold and silver production in addition to a very large copper development project, all in the Americas. The gold and silver mines
are in prolific mineral-rich regions of the world, the Cortez Trend in Nevada, USA, the Timmins district of Ontario, Canada and the Deseado
Massif in Santa Cruz province, Argentina. McEwen Inc. is considering reactivating a gold and silver mine in Mexico.

 

It has a 46.4% interest in the large, long-life,
advanced-stage Los Azules copper development project in San Juan province, Argentina – a region that hosts some of the country’s
largest copper deposits. The Los Azules copper project is designed to be one of the world’s first regenerative copper mines and
carbon neutral by 2038.

 

Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, has a personal
cost basis for his investment in the companies of over $200 million and takes a salary of $1 per year, aligning his interests closely
with shareholders. He is a recipient of the Order of Canada, a member of the Canadian Mining Hall of Fame and a winner of the Ernest &
Young Entrepreneur of the Year (Energy) award. His objective is to build MUX’s profitability, share value and eventually implement
a dividend policy, as he did while building Goldcorp Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN COPPER

 

McEwen Copper Inc. is a Canadian-based private
company with a 100% interest in the Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina and the Elder Creek copper/gold project in
Nevada, USA.

 

Based on S&P Global data for 2024, Los Azules
projected annual production would rank it as the 26th worldwide, once in production, placing it in the top 6% of all 423 copper
producers. The project also ranks 10th globally in terms of total Mineral Resources among all undeveloped copper porphyry
deposits (company disclosure).

 

Los Azules is being designed to provide a model
to the industry for a more sustainable, low-carbon future and to help improve public perception of mining by fundamentally differing
from conventional copper mines –substantially reducing water consumption and carbon emissions and operating on 100% renewable electricity
once in production.

 

Glossary of Terms, Units and Abbreviations

 

AISC - All-In Sustaining Cost (C1 +
sustaining capital + royalties + taxes)

 

Approx. - Approximately

 

B - billion

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 4 
 
 

 

 

Blb - billion pounds

 

Copper cathode - High-purity (typically
99.99%) of refined copper sheets (LME Grade A) produced through an electrolytic refining process. This finished product serves as a primary
raw material for high-quality copper products, such as wires, tubes, and various alloys.

 

CO₂-e/t Cu - Kilograms of CO₂
equivalent per tonne of copper

 

Cu - copper

 

C1 Costs - Direct cash costs of production

 

EIA - Environmental Impact Assessment

 

FS – Feasibility Study

 

GHG Emissions - Greenhouse gas emissions
(CO₂-equivalent)

 

Heap Leach - Process of extracting
metals by percolating acid through ore piles

 

Hypogene or Primary - Refers to mineralization
formed by ascending hydrothermal fluids deep below the surface, usually at high temperature and pressure

 

IFC - International Finance Corporation

 

IRR (Internal Rate of Return) - Rate
at which NPV = 0

 

ktpa - 1,000 tonnes per annum

 

km - kilometer

 

lb - pound (0.4536 kg)

 

leach project - project using heap
leach process

 

LOI - Letter of Intent

 

LOM - Life of Mine

 

L/s - 1 liter per second

 

m - meter

 

M - million

 

MW – megawatt (1,000,000 watts)

 

Mlb - million pounds

 

NPV (Net Present Value) - Present value
of future cash flows discounted at 8%

 

NSR – (Net Smelter Return) -
a royalty based on a percentage of metal produced based on the metal sale proceeds less the cost of refining at an off-site refinery
(Metal Price × Payable Metal Content) − (Treatment Charges + Refining Charges + Penalties + Transport/
Insurance/ Marketing Costs)

 

NTP – Notice to Proceed

 

Nuton® - Rio Tinto’s
proprietary Nuton technology

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 5 
 
 

 

 

OEM - Original Equipment Manufacturer

 

oz - troy ounce (31.1 grams)

 

Primary or Hypogene – Refers
to the original ore minerals formed during the initial geological processes (e.g., magmatic or hydrothermal activity). Primary mineralization
is typically found at depth and is unaltered by surface weathering.

 

RIGI - Argentina’s Large Investment
Incentive Regime

 

SX/EW - Solvent Extraction / Electrowinning

 

Secondary - Refers to ore minerals
or enrichment formed after the primary (hypogene) stage, usually by supergene processes (weathering, oxidation, and downward percolation
of fluids near the surface).

 

Soluble Copper (CuSOL) – the
amount of copper assayed using sequential methodology that includes acid soluble and cyanide soluble assayed components. Acid soluble
copper generally represents readily acid dissolvable oxide, carbonate and similar copper minerals. Cyanide soluble copper generally represents
secondary copper minerals that are readily leached with commercial bioleach technology (chalcocite, digenite, covellite)

 

Supergene - Secondary ore minerals
formed near the Earth’s surface through weathering, oxidation, and groundwater movement. Metals are leached from upper zones and
reprecipitated at depth, often creating an enriched zone of higher-grade mineralization.

 

Total Copper (CuT) – the amount
of copper contained in all mineral forms in the deposit by conventional assaying methodology. Total copper includes the soluble copper
component.

 

t - tonne (1,000 kg)

 

yr - year

 

Technical Appendix

 

The information in this appendix is provided
for technical readers and analysts.

 

1.Project Overview

Property Description

Exploration Targets

A Sustainable Approach

 

2.Copper Price Assumption

 

3.Mineral Resource &
 Reserve Estimates

Updated Mineral Resource Estimate

Maiden Proven and Probable Mineral
Reserve Estimate

 

4.Metallurgy & Recovery

 

5.Economic Analysis

Economic Metrics

Sensitivity Analysis

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 6 
 
 

 

 

6.Capital & Operating
 Costs

Capital Costs Estimates

YPF Funding Power Supply

Operating Costs Estimates

 

7.ESG & Sustainability

 

8.Permitting & Regulatory
 Status

 

9.Development Timeline

 

10.Nuton® Opportunity

 

11.Strategic Partnerships

 

12.Study Contributors and Qualified
 Persons

 

13.End Notes

 

1. Project Overview

 

Property Description

 

Located in Calingasta District, San Juan Province,
Argentina, on the border with Chile. The Los Azules copper project is a classic Andean-style porphyry copper deposit. The large hydrothermal
alteration system spans at least 5 kilometers (km) by 4 km, elongated along a north-northwest major structural corridor. The Los
Azules deposit area itself is approximately 4 km long by 2.2 km wide and lies within the alteration zone.

 

The limits of the Los Azules mineralization along
strike to the North and at depth have not yet been defined. Near-mine primary or hypogene copper mineralization extends to at least 1,000
m below the surface. Near surface, leached primary sulfides (mainly pyrite and chalcopyrite) were redeposited below the water table in
a sub-horizontal zone of supergene enrichment as secondary chalcocite and covellite. Hypogene bornite appears at deeper levels together
with chalcopyrite. Gold, silver, and molybdenum are present in small amounts, however copper is the economic driver at Los Azules.

 

Exploration Targets

 

Porphyry exploration targets near to Los Azules
include Tango, Porfido Norte, Franca, and Mercedes. They are a priority for next season’s exploration (see Figure 1). These
targets offer the potential to enlarge the size of resources and extend the life-of-mine beyond that presented in this study.

 

The Franca target, with high-grade intercepts,
shows the potential to extend the Los Azules resource to the northeast. The Mercedes target west of Los Azules has hydrothermal alteration
and similar surface geology to Los Azules and has the indication to be another hidden porphyry, like Los Azules. Porfido Norte is a target
that is located along the main Los Azules structural corridor with indications of a suitable intrusive suite of rocks with hydrothermal
alteration. Finally, the Tango target will be mapped in detail to better understand the potential drill targets.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 7 
 
 

 

 

Figure 1: Los Azules deposit (outlined in
blue), and exploration targets Mercedes, Porfido Norte, Franca and Tango (black squares). Satellite image with Total Magnetic Intensity
map.

 

 

 

Heap Leach SX/EW — The Preferred Path
Forward

 

The FS is based on a heap leach process using
solvent extraction-electrowinning (SX/EW) to produce 99.99% copper cathodes (LME Grade A equivalent) for sale in Argentina or international
markets. There are three principal reasons why the implementation strategy remains a leach project, as in the 2023 PEA(11):

 

1.Environmental Footprint: Process water
 consumption is 74% lower than a milling operation (158 L/s LOM average vs. 600 L/s).
 Net electricity demand is 48% lower than a concentrator (119 MW vs. 230 MW). GHG
 emissions are 72% lower than the average mining operation (1,082 vs. 3,930 kg CO2-e/t
 Cu for Mine-to-Metal(12), with a roadmap to achieve further reductions through
 new technologies, with the ultimate goal of reaching net-zero carbon by 2038 with some offsets.
 Los Azules copper cathodes will thus be attractive to end-users seeking to measurably reduce
 their upstream environmental impacts.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 8 
 
 

 

 

2.Reduced Permitting Risk: With the approval
 of our Environmental Impact Assessment on December 3, 2024, and the approval of
 our application for the Large Investment Incentive Regime (RIGI) on September 26, 2025,
 and the expected approval of our Water Concession permit for operations, Los Azules is well
 positioned to begin construction. The project uses heap leach technology that is well accepted
 in the San Juan Province today. It also eliminates tailings and tailings dams, conserves
 scarce water resources, and reduces the overall complexity of the mine, optimizing the permitting
 process.

 

3.Producing Cathodes: The leach process
 will produce LME Grade A copper cathodes, which can be used directly in the fabrication of
 copper products, both within Argentina and internationally. The production of copper cathodes
 eliminates reliance on third party foreign smelters for the processing of concentrates into
 refined copper products. It also eliminates significant GHG emissions associated with transportation,
 and pollution associated with smelting. Counterparty and pricing risks are also reduced.

 

A Sustainable Approach

 

The FS marks another significant step toward
our goal of reducing our environmental footprint. Greater environmental and social stewardship sets our project apart from other
potential mine developments, which appropriately justifies certain economic trade-offs. Trade-offs to achieve the environmental benefits
of heap leaching are lower overall copper recovery, slightly higher unit costs, and less immediate cashflow due to extended leach cycles.
Nevertheless, the leach project remains economically attractive. Furthermore, McEwen Copper believes that some of these drawbacks can
be mitigated by implementing developing technologies such as the Nuton® Technology, discussed below. Additionally, trolley-assist
haulage, conveyor waste haulage, and In-Pit Crush and Convey (IPCC) will be further evaluated during the detailed engineering stage to
continue to reduce the mine’s carbon footprint. Additionally overall CAPEX is lower than comparable concentrators.

 

The team has also worked safely with 1,848,632
man-hours worked since our last Lost Time Incident and since January of 2022 we have worked a total of 2,367,891 man-hours to achieve
this study result.

 

We developed regenerative guiding principles
to frame our approach to sustainable innovation and set high-reaching goals addressing all facets of the mining and processing options
considered for Los Azules. The project development seeks to significantly reduce the environmental footprint of mining operations and
their associated GHG emissions by integrating the latest renewable and environmentally responsible technologies and processes. The project
has letters of intent (LOIs) to obtain 100% of its energy from renewable sources (wind, hydro, and solar), primarily from YPF Luz, using
a combination of off-site and onsite installations. The project is also seeking to have long-term net positive impacts on the greater
Andean ecosystem, local flora and fauna, the lives of miners, and citizens of nearby communities, while contributing positively to the
local and national economy of Argentina. Refer to the full FS NI 43-101 Technical Report for more information about our regenerative
approach.

 

2. Copper Price Assumptions

 

The copper price used for mineral reserves in
the FS was $4.25 per pound and $4.80 per pound for mineral resources, in line with analysts’ consensus projections
for long-term copper prices that range between $3.55 and $5.00 per pound, with a median price of $4.25 per pound. The mineral resource
price was set at 113% of the mineral reserve price.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 9 
 
 

 

 

Economics in the cashflow
model were analyzed at $4.35 per pound copper. This reflects analysts’ consensus at the time of publication of the feasibility
study.

 

3.
Mineral Resource & Reserve Estimates

 

The FS includes an
updated independent Mineral Resource and a maiden Mineral Reserve estimate, which contains a Mineral Resource of 5.4
B lbs Cu Measured and Indicated (965.5 million tonnes at grade 0.255% Cu) and 20.0 B lbs Cu Inferred (4,239.3 million tonnes
at grade 0.214% Cu) (exclusive of Reserves), and a maiden Mineral Reserve of 10.2 B lbs Cu Proven and Probable (1,023.1 million
tonnes at grade 0.453% Cu).

 

This study provides
an update on the work done for the 2023 Los Azules PEA. Drilling more than 120,000 meters with more than 2.3 M man-hours worked in the
last three seasons has upgraded the resource categories to allow us to present a Mineral Reserve in the FS similar to the 1.182 B tonnes
of mineable Mineral Resources containing 10.9 B lbs Cu in the 2023 PEA. This achievement included a campaign during the 2023/2024 season
with 70,000 meters drilled and up to 23 rigs operating simultaneously at site.

 

This program was executed
in collaboration with seven drilling contractors, including two local ventures that were operating LF160 Boart Longyear rigs owned by
McEwen Copper. During this period, the company also acquired the largest fleet of LF160s in South America and assembled a highly trained
team to support the ambitious drilling program.

 

Maiden
Proven and Probable Mineral Reserve Estimate

 

The Los Azules project
is to be developed as a large-scale open pit mining operation. 1.02 billion tonnes of ore will be mined at average diluted head
grades of 0.45% Cu and a strip ratio of 1.65:1 over a 21-year mine life including pre-production and stockpile reclaim plus 2
years of leaching operation production.

 

Given the concern
about the geotechnical stability of the ultimate pit slopes, several consultants reviewed the data, and E-Mining Technology ultimately
provided the analysis that was used to design the pit. The significant amount of drilling, review of core, and analysis resulted in a
delay in the delivery of the feasibility study but has improved the confidence in the design basis for the open pit. The ultimate slopes
will not be mined for several years into the mine life, which allows time for additional geotechnical work to be done to improve the
understanding of the rock qualities that can support those design parameters for interim and ultimate pit phases.

 

The Los Azules pit
will be mined in 12 phases. Eighteen geotechnical sectors were defined with overall slope angles ranging from 32 to 37 degrees, according
to E-Mining Technology’s geotechnical study. The shallowest overall slope angles are in the north and south of the pit, as well
as in the bottom portion of the eastern side, due to a fault-weakened zone.

 

Large electrically
powered hydraulic shovels will be used in combination with ultra-class 360-tonne haul trucks. These are sized to mine 15-meter-high benches.
To maximize productivity, efficiency and safety in a high altitude environment, the drills and haul trucks will be autonomously operated.

 

The Mineral Reserves
for Los Azules are updated and stated in Table 1. Measured mineral resources and Indicated mineral resources were converted to
Proven and Probable mineral reserves, respectively. Ore reserves were estimated using long-term metal price estimates of $4.25/ lb
Cu.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 10 
 
 

 

 

Table
1: Mineral Reserve Statement, Effective Date September 3, 2025

 

 
 
 
 Grade 
 Contained
 Metal 
 
 Reserve
 Class 
 Tonnage
 (Kt) 
 Total
 Cu % 
 Soluble
 Cu % 
 Cu
 M lb 
 
 Proven 
 229,879 
 0.683 
 0.495 
 3,463 
 
 Probable 
 793,173 
 0.386 
 0.259 
 6,754 
 
 Total 
 1,023,052 
 0.453 
 0.312 
 10,217 
 

 

Table 1
Notes:

 

●The
 Qualified Person for the Mineral Reserve estimates is Gordon Zurowski P.Eng., an AGP employee.
 Mineral Reserves have an effective date of 03 September 2025. Mineral Reserves are reported
 on a 100% basis.

 

●Mineral
 Reserves are estimated assuming open pit mining methods and include dilution. Recoveries
 were based on the extractions shown in Figure 2. Pit slopes vary by sector and range
 from 32° to 37°. The cut-off is variable and ranges from $4.79/t NSR to $7.23/t NSR.
 The copper price used was $4.25/lb Cu. Cu recovery varies by lithology. Mining costs vary
 by bench with a minimum of $2.14/t and a maximum of $4.11/t. Processing costs are variable
 and range from $3.18/t to $5.62/t leached. The processing costs include: $1.61/t G&A,
 $0.43/t leached for sustaining capital, and $0.15/t leached to account for closure cost.
 Copper cathode sales cost is $0.02/lb Cu. Copper cathode was assumed to be sold FOB the mine
 site.

 

Updated
Mineral Resource Estimate

 

The database for resource
estimation has a cutoff date of March 27, 2025. An additional 1,075 meters of drilling from four geotechnical holes, completed from
early 2025 to date, were not included in the resource estimate.

 

The mineral resources
have been classified according to guidelines and logic set out in the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM
2019) Definitions referred to in NI 43-101. Resources were classified as Measured, Indicated or Inferred by considering the
geology, sampling, and grade estimation aspects of the model. For geology, consideration was given to the confidence in the interpretation
of the lithologic domain boundaries and geometry. For sampling, consideration was given to the number and spacing of composites, the
orientation of drilling and the reliability of sampling. For the estimation results, consideration was given to the confidence with which
grades were estimated, as measured by the quality of the match between the grades of the data and the model.

 

Mineral resources
are determined using an NSR cut-off value to cover the processing cost for each recovery methodology. For supergene and primary material
using sulfuric acid leaching and SX/EW recovery, a marginal cut-off was used that was variable ranging from $4.79/t NSR to $7.23/t
NSR. The supergene and primary material can be treated in a float mill with NSR cutoffs of $5.13/t and $5.11/t, respectively.
NSR values are based on a copper price of $4.80/lb, gold at $2,500/oz and silver at $32/oz where applicable.
Variable pit slopes between 32° and 37° were applied depending on sector.

 

The current database
is sufficient for preparing a long-range model that will serve as a basis for modeling associated with completing the FS. The extent
of mineralization along strike exceeds three kilometers, and the distance across strike is approximately one kilometer. The deposit is
open at depth. Over the approximately 2.5 km strike length where mineralization is strongest, the average drill spacing ranges from approximately
50 meters to more than 120 meters. The central core of the enriched zone is drilled at an approximate 50 m spacing. The assay database
considers 627 drillholes with 132,255 meters of assayed intervals. Resource estimation work was performed using Datamine Studio software.

 McEwen Inc.Page 11 
 
 

 

 

Resources disclosed
in Table 2 are reported in two categories related to processing amenability:

 

1) materials
that are suited for processing in a commercially proven conventional, ambient conditions, copper bio-leaching scheme (Leach);
and

 

2) materials
that are better suited to processing either in a more advanced bio-leaching scheme such as Nuton® Technology or traditional
milling/concentrator approach (Mill or Leach+).

 

Table
2: Mineral Resources (Exclusive of Mineral Reserves), Effective Date September 3, 2025

 

 
 
 
 
 Average
 Grade 
 Contained
 Metal 
 
 
 
 Million tonnes
 (MT) 
 CuT
 % 
 CuSol
 % 
 Au
 (g/t) 
 Ag
 (g/t) 
 Cu
 (Blbs) 
 Au
 (Moz) 
 Ag
 (Moz) 
 
 
 Supergene
 Leach 
 251.9 
 0.303 
 0.167 
 - 
 - 
 1.7 
 - 
 - 
 
 Measured &
 Indicated 
 Supergene
 Mill or Leach+ 
 77.6 
 0.108 
 0.042 
 0.04 
 1.11 
 0.2 
 0.1 
 2.8 
 
 
 Primary
 Mill or Leach+ 
 635.9 
 0.255 
 0.046 
 0.05 
 1.17 
 3.6 
 0.9 
 23.8 
 
 Total Measured & Indicated 
 Leach &
 Mill or Leach+ 
 965.5 
 0.255 
 0.077 
 
 
 5.4 
 1.0 
 26.6 
 
 Inferred 
 Supergene Mill or Leach+ 
 601.1 
 0.292 
 0.131 
 0.04 
 1.32 
 3.9 
 0.9 
 25.5 
 
 
 Primary Mill or Leach+ 
 3,638.2 
 0.201 
 0.027 
 0.04 
 1.06 
 16.1 
 4.9 
 124.5 
 
 Total Inferred 
 Leach &
 Mill or Leach+ 
 4,239.3 
 0.214 
 0.042 
 
 
 20.0 
 5.7 
 149.9 
 

 

Notes to Table
2:

 

●The
 Qualified Person for the Mineral Resource estimate is Jeff Sullivan – CRM-SA, LLC.
 Mineral Resources have an effective date of September 3, 2025.

 

●Mineral
 resources, which are not mineral reserves, do not have demonstrated economic viability. The
 estimate of mineral resources may be materially affected by environmental, permitting, legal,
 title, socio-political, marketing, or other relevant factors.

 

●The
 quantity and grade of reported inferred mineral resources in this estimation are uncertain
 in nature and there is insufficient exploration to define these inferred mineral resources
 as an indicated or measured mineral resource; it is expected that further infill drilling
 will result in upgrading the majority of this material to an indicated or measured classification.

 

●Reasonable
 prospects of eventual economic extraction are demonstrated by using a calculated NSR value
 in each block to evaluate an open pit shell using Measured, Indicated and Inferred blocks
 in Geovia Whittle™ pit optimization software. Mining costs vary by bench with a minimum
 of $2.14/t and a maximum of $6.38/t.

 

●NSR
 was calculated using the following: metal prices of $4.80/lb for copper, $2,500/oz for gold
 and $32/oz for silver, Processing costs are variable and range from $3.18/t to $5.62/t leached.
 Milling process cost are $5.13/t for supergene and $5.11/t for primary ores. Total freight
 costs of $150/t for concentrate, selling costs of $0.02/lb for copper.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 12 
 
 

 

 

●A
 marginal cut-off was used that was variable ranging from $4.79/t NSR to $7.23/t NSR based
 on extraction of the resource from the enriched zone using sulfuric acid leaching and SX/EW
 recovery; the recovery was calculated using the extractions shown in Figure 2 and
 applying a 95% operational efficiency.

 

●The
 supergene and primary material can potentially be treated in a mill/concentrator with NSR
 cut-offs of $5.13/t for supergene and $5.11/t for primary respectively. The mill has the
 added benefit of also recovering the gold and silver present in the resource. Additional
 parameters are used for the NSR calculation for this scenario. Mill recoveries for the secondary
 copper resources were 89.3% and for the primary resources were 93.2%.

 

●Depending
 on the potential depth of the pit, total pit slope angles ranged from 32° to 37°
 depending on the sector. Overburden slopes were set at 32°.

 

●Composites
 of 2 m length were capped where needed; the capping strategy is based on the distribution
 of grade which varies by location (i.e. domain or proximity to controlling structures) and
 the associated potential metal removal. The resource estimate is based on uncapped copper
 grades; local capped grades are used for gold and silver.

 

●Block
 grades were estimated using a combination of ordinary Kriging and inverse distance squared
 weighting depending on domain size.

 

●Model
 blocks are 20 m x 20 m x 15 m in size.

 

4.
Metallurgy & Recovery

 

The metallurgical
development for the Los Azules feasibility was completed in three phases:

 

Phase
1: Baseline testing from the test work program outlined in the 2023 PEA.

 

Phase
2: Testing using samples from the 2021–2022 drilling campaigns, to expand the variability database from Phase 1 and to extend
the geometallurgical data set to include lithologic domains.

 

Phase
3: Scale-up validation using samples from the 2022-2023 exploration campaigns, to validate scale-up from the baseline 3-meter columns
to the planned 9-meter bench height of the heap leach pad and to confirm extraction within the test programs. The Phase 3 master composites
were built by lithologic domain and were pulled from within the pit shell for the initial five years of operation. Additional samples
were collected from the 2023-2024 exploration campaign from holes drilled vertically.

 

The metallurgical
work completed to date provides comprehensive understanding of the expected performance characteristics of the Los Azules deposit. The
anticipated copper extractions shown in Figure 2 are utilized in the block model to calculate NSR value for each block in conjunction.
Copper recovered to cathodes will consider a heap efficiency and inventory factor of 95% of the extractable copper, based on general
experience and industry practice. 

Continued...

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 13 
 
 

 

 

Figure 2: All 360-day
column extraction data plotted as soluble copper (CuSOL) to total copper (CuT) ratio of the head grade broken out by lithology and ratios.

 

 

Notes: IMP = Intermineral
Porphyry, IMP BX = IMP Breccia, DIO = Diorite, EMP = Early Mineral Porphyry, and EMP BX = EMP Breccia

 

The expected overall
total copper recovery is approximately 70.8% and is distributed over a three-year timeframe from placement on the leach pad to
account for the timing of active leaching cycles as the pad is constructed. The copper extraction methodology best reflects the potential
variability related to host rock materials and the expected variability related to copper grades, mineralogy and recovery that can be
practically applied in the mining modeling. In the opinion of the QP, the metallurgical test work and analysis support the metallurgical
assumptions provided and used in the mineral reserve statement, the feasibility mine plans, and the economic analysis presented in this
report.

 

Processing of the
primary ores can be achieved by using both the Nuton process, alternative leaching processes such as chloride leaching or by using a
conventional milling operation to produce concentrates. The advantage of conventional milling is the additional revenue from the recovered
gold and silver from the deposit. The next stage of metallurgical test work will include sufficient work to evaluate the processing method
to be used for the primary ores during the detailed engineering and initial operations phase.

 

5.
Economic Analysis

 

Economic
Metrics

 

All currency shown
in the FS is expressed in constant Q2 2025 United States Dollars unless otherwise noted.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 14 
 
 

 

 

The Business Case
for the leach project uses a copper price assumption of $4.35/lb. Summary results are provided below in Table 3.

 

Table
3: Project Metrics – Business Case

 

 
 Project Metric 
 Unit 
 Number 
 
 Mine Life 
 Years 
 21 
 
 Tonnes Processed 
 Billion tonnes 
 1.023 
 
 Tonnes Waste Mined 
 Billion tonnes 
 1.684 
 
 Strip Ratio 
 
 1.65 
 
 Total Copper Grade (CuT) 
 % CuT 
 0.453%
 
 Soluble Copper Grade (CuSOL) 
 % CuSOL 
 0.312%
 
 Total Copper Recovery 
 % 
 70.8%
 
 Copper Production (LOM avg.) 
 tonnes/yr 
 148,200 
 
 Copper Production (Yrs 1-5) 
 tonnes/yr 
 204,800 
 
 Copper Production – cathode Cu 
 ktonnes 
 3,279 
 
 Initial Capital Cost 
 USD Millions 
 $3,168 
 
 Sustaining Capital Cost 
 USD Millions 
 $2,131 
 
 Closure Costs 
 USD Millions 
 $386 
 
 C1 Cost (Life of Mine) 
 USD/lb Cu 
 $1.71 
 
 All-in Sustaining Costs (AISC) 
 USD/lb Cu 
 $2.11 
 
 Before Taxes 
 
 
 
 Net Cumulative Cashflow 
 USD Millions 
 $12,721 
 
 Internal Rate of Return (IRR) 
 % 
 24.3%
 
 Net Present Value (NPV) @
 8% 
 USD Millions 
 $4,280 
 
 After Taxes 
 
 
 
 Net Cumulative Cashflow 
 USD Millions 
 $9,647 
 
 Internal Rate of Return
 (IRR) 
 % 
 19.8%
 
 Net Present Value (NPV)
 @ 8% 
 USD Millions 
 $2,940 
 
 Pay Back Period 
 Years 
 3.87 
 

 

The FS for Los Azules
envisions an average annual copper cathode production of 451 million lbs per year (204,800 tonnes) during the first five years
of operation, representing an increase of 50 million lbs per year compared to the initial five years of the 2023 PEA production
schedule. Over the 21-year life of mine, the average annual copper cathode production is projected at 327 million lbs per year
(148,200 tonnes).

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 15 
 
 

 

 

Based on the LOM extraction
of mineralized material containing approximately 10.2 billion lbs (4.63 million tonnes) of total copper, and an average copper
recovery of 70.8%, total copper recoverable to cathode is 7.23 billion lbs (3.28 million tonnes). The copper production
by year is shown in Figure 3:

 

Figure 3: Copper
Cathode Production by Year

 

 

Other economic metrics:

 

- Initial
capital expenditure $3.17 billion

 

- Project
capital intensity $9.18/ lb Cu per year (or $20,200/ t Cu per year) based on Initial capital / average annual production,
or $0.73/ lb Cu (or $1,600/ t Cu) based on LOM Capex / LOM production(8).

 

- Average
EBITDA(9) per year $1.31 billion for Years 1-5 and $696 million for Years 6-21.

 

A Nuton®
Technology Case is considered in the opportunity section of the FS as a separate project at a PEA-level of study. That case would
process primary material stockpiled during the mining of the leach project and mineral resources outside of the Mineral Reserve pit with
low soluble copper content. The Nuton case would use the existing processing facilities to support the operation, with a new leach pad
and Pregnant Leach Solution pumped back to the original solvent exchange & electrowinning facility. The use of Nuton®
Technology has the potential to extend the life of the project and will continue to be evaluated after the conclusion of the FS.

 

Sensitivity
Analysis

 

The leach project
economics remain attractive (i.e. with an after-tax IRR of 15% or above) at a copper price above $3.74 per pound and are similarly
resistant to an increase in LOM capital expenditure of up to 25% and an increase in operating expenses of up to 37% (see
Figure 4 below).

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 16 
 
 

 

 

Table 4 below
shows the sensitivity of the leach project’s after-tax economics to copper price fluctuations (+/- 20%). The project after-tax
NPV8% is breakeven at a copper price of $3.10 per pound.

 

Table
4: Project Copper Price Sensitivity

 

 
 Sensitivity to 
 Metal Pricing 
 After-Tax 
 
 Change in Cu Price 
 Copper Price 
 NPV 
 IRR 
 Payback 
 
 (%) 
 $ Cu/lb  
 $M 
 % 
 Years 
 
 -20% 
 $3.48 
 $902 
 12% 
 5.78 
 
 -15% 
 $3.70 
 $1,411 
 14% 
 5.15 
 
 -10% 
 $3.92 
 $1,921 
 16% 
 4.68 
 
 -5% 
 $4.13 
 $2,430 
 18% 
 4.33 
 
 0% 
 $4.35 
 $2,940 
 19.8% 
 3.87 
 
 5% 
 $4.57 
 $3,449 
 21% 
 3.59 
 
 10% 
 $4.79 
 $3,956 
 23% 
 3.39 
 
 15% 
 $5.00 
 $4,461 
 25% 
 3.23 
 
 20% 
 $5.22 
 $4,966 
 26% 
 3.06 
 

 

Table
5 below shows the sensitivity of the project economics to initial and sustaining capital expenditure escalation on an after-tax basis.

 

Table
5: Project Initial & Sustaining CAPEX Sensitivity

 

 
 Sensitivity to 
 After-Tax 
 
 Increased 
 NPV 
 IRR 
 Payback 
 
 CAPEX (%) 
 $M 
 % 
 Years 
 
 0% 
 $2,940 
 19.8% 
 3.87 
 
 5% 
 $2,773 
 19% 
 4.18 
 
 10% 
 $2,606 
 18% 
 4.41 
 
 15% 
 $2,440 
 17% 
 4.60 
 
 20% 
 $2,273 
 16% 
 4.78 
 
 25% 
 $2,107 
 15% 
 4.99 
 

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 17 
 
 

 

 

Table 6 below shows the sensitivity
of the project economics to operating expenditure escalation on a after-tax basis.

 

Table
6: Project OPEX Sensitivity

 
 
 Sensitivity 
 After-Tax 
 
 to Increased 
 NPV 
 IRR 
 Payback 
 
 OPEX (%) 
 $M 
 % 
 Years 
 
 0 
 $2,940 
 19.8% 
 3.87 
 
 5% 
 $2,746 
 19% 
 4.00 
 
 10% 
 $2,553 
 18% 
 4.18 
 
 15% 
 $2,359 
 18% 
 4.32 
 
 20% 
 $2,166 
 17% 
 4.43 
 
 25% 
 $1,973 
 16% 
 4.54 
 

 

Figure 4: Chart
of IRR Sensitivity (After-Tax) Relative to Copper Price, CAPEX and OPEX

 

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 18 
 
 

 

 

 

6. Capital & Operating Costs

 

Capital Costs Estimates

 

The project includes the development of an open
pit mine with multi-stage crushing and screening, a heap leach pad, and a copper solvent extraction-electrowinning (SX/EW) facility with
a nominal production capacity of 215 ktpa copper cathodes (design maximum 240 ktpa). Initial capital infrastructure for the Base
Case includes the following facilities:

 

·Mine
 development and associated infrastructure

·Coarse
 rock storage and ore handling (crushing, conveying, agglomeration)

·Heap
 leach pads and conveyor stacking systems

·SX/EW
 facility

·Sulfuric
 acid plant

·On-site
 utilities and ancillary facilities including a construction camp

·Off-site
 infrastructure: power transmission line (outsourced), access roads, and permanent camp

 

The Project’s initial capital costs are
based on budgetary quotes for major equipment, recent in-house cost information and installation factors, and regional contractor inputs
and facilities obtained between Q2 and Q3 2025. The capital costs for the project are summarized in Table 5 and should be viewed
with the level of accuracy expected for a Feasibility Study.

 

Design allowances for materials quantities and
labor and contingencies were included in the project estimate.

 

Table 7: Project Initial
Capital Cost

 

 
 

 
 Description 
 Cost
 ($M) 
 
 Direct On-Site Facilities 
 
 
 Mine Facilities, Equipment, Pre-Production 
 $805.9 
 
 Ore Storage & Handling 
 $283.3 
 
 Heap Leach 
 $331.6 
 
 SX-EW 
 $188.5 
 
 Sulfuric Acid Plant 
 $114.3 
 
 Ancillary Facilities 
 $123.4 
 
 Site Development & Yard Utilities 
 $101.6 
 
 Water Supply 
 $29.6 
 
 Direct Off-Site Facilities 
 
 
 Power Supply (see below) 
 -0- 
 
 Local Support Facilities 
 $16.4 
 
 Access Roads 
 $93.6 
 
 Logistics Activities Zone (LAZ) 
 $45.6 
 
 Total Direct Cost 
 $2,133.7 
 

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 19 
 
 

 

 

Table 7: Project Initial Capital Cost

 

 
 Description 
 Cost ($M) 
 
 Project Indirects & Construction Services 
 
 
 Contractor Indirect Cost 
 $41.7 
 
 Catering, Camp Operations &
 Maintenance 
 $94.6 
 
 Contracted Services 
 $89.6 
 
 Construction Equipment, Tools &
 Supplies 
 $14.6 
 
 Freight & Duties 
 $59.3 
 
 Field Startup & Vendor Services 
 $15.1 
 
 Spares, Initial Fills (incl. Mining) 
 $65.5 
 
 Project Indirect/ Project Management
 Labor 
 
 
 EPCM Services 
 $139.2 
 
 Owner's Cost 
 
 
 Owner Project Team 
 $7.6 
 
 Office Costs & Assets incl.
 vehicles 
 $0.6 
 
 Owner Services Cost 
 $28.8 
 
 Owner Preproduction G&A Costs 
 $104.7 
 
 Opex During Ramp-up 
 $34.8 
 
 Total Indirect Cost 
 $691.0 
 
 Design Growth Allowances 
 $44.3 
 
 Contingency 
 $293.9 
 
 Total Capital Cost 
 $3,167.9 
 

 

YPF Funding Power Supply

 

The construction cost of the Power Supply line
to site and the electrical system upgrades total approximately $440 million which has not been included in the capital estimate as YPF Luz,
a large Argentinean power utility company, will be constructing the line at their expense pursuant to a long-term, renewable power purchase
agreement and connection repayment that will follow the terms agreed to in a Memorandum of Understanding.

 

To date, the company received preliminary finance
proposals from Tier-1 OEMs and European export credit agencies for opportunities exceeding $1.1 billion for infrastructure and technology,
covering 85 to 100% of major mechanical equipment and local installation costs – see the Strategic Partnerships section.

 

Operating Costs Estimates

 

Table 8 summarizes the LOM project operating
costs per tonne of material processed and per pound of copper produced.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 20 
 
 

 

 

Table
8: LOM Project Cash Costs

 

 
 Description
 
 LOM Cost/tonne
 ($)
 
 
 LOM Cost/lb 
 ($)
 
 
 Mining
 
 6.22
 
 
 0.87
 
 
 Processing
 
 3.83
 
 
 0.54
 
 
 General & Administrative
 
 1.86
 
 
 0.26
 
 
 Selling Expenses
 
 0.28
 
 
 0.04
 
 
 LOM C1 Costs
 
 12.05
 
 
 1.71
 
 

 

7. ESG & Sustainability

 

Environmental Highlights:

 

-Process water use: 159 L/s LOM
 average, 74% lower than a conventional mill producing copper concentrate with approx.
 600 L/s(10).

 

-Peak Site Water use: 244.2 L/s,
 with 227 L/s allocated for mining activities and 17.2 L/s for human use.

 

-Electricity demand: 119 MW (48%
 lower than a concentrator)

 

-GHG emissions: For the current
 project basis, the estimated annual average Green House Gas (GHG) emissions for the Los Azules
 project is 1,082 kg CO2-e/t Cu from Scope 1 and 2 sources. This places the project on the
 lowest decile of the copper industry carbon curve, well below the estimated industry average
 of 4,026 kg CO2-e/t Cu(5) using Skarn Associates mine-to-metal “E1” metric(13).
 At the start of operations, Los Azules will already be one of the lowest carbon copper cathodes
 produced in the world.

 

The project continues to develop electrification
strategies for the mine and overall project including application of trolley assist for mine haulage, in-pit crushing and conveying and
waste conveyance. The timing for these applications and others is under final analysis. Los Azules is also well positioned to take advantage
of emerging opportunities (e.g. battery electric mine and services vehicles) and longer-term developing technologies.

 

-Goal: McEwen Copper is committed
 to becoming carbon neutral by 2038 at Los Azules, a target achievable using emerging
 technologies and offsets.

 

The project will source 100% renewable energy
(wind, hydro, solar) and aims for net positive impacts on local ecosystems and communities.

 

8. Permitting & Regulatory Status

 

The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for
Los Azules was granted on December 3, 2024.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 21 
 
 

 

 

On September 26, 2025, Los Azules was accepted
into the Large Investment Incentive Regime RIGI. The investment regime provides the project with legal, fiscal, and customs stability
for 30 years, including:

 

- Legal certainty, including tax, customs and
foreign exchange stability for 30 years, with improved mechanisms in comparison with a prior regime applicable to mining activities,
and access to international arbitration should a dispute arise.

 

- Tax incentives in the investment phase -such
as release from VAT payments which significantly reduces the financial burden during construction- and in the operation phase, such as
the reduction of the corporate income tax rate to 25% from the general 35%, a 50% reduction in the dividend withholding tax, no export
tax, an accelerated depreciation for new capital investments, and exemption from export duties.

 

- Streamlined customs procedures, including duty
and tax exemptions to import of capital goods and the ability to leave export proceeds in foreign bank accounts, available to be applied
to debt repayment or any other goal.

 

The Water Concession permit applications are
currently under review with the provincial government. The use of heap leach technology, which is well accepted in San Juan Province,
reduces permitting complexity by eliminating tailings and conserving water.

 

9. Nuton® Opportunity

 

Nuton is a technology venture of Rio Tinto that
became a strategic partner of McEwen Copper in 2022. The Nuton® Technology is a suite of proprietary technologies that
provide opportunities to leach both primary and secondary copper sulfides, providing a significant opportunity to optimize mine plans
and overall mining and processing operations. In addition, Nuton® Technology provides significant other benefits, such
as lower overall energy consumption, lower CO2 emissions, smaller land footprint, and lower water consumption per unit of copper produced
than conventional sulfide mineralization recovery processes.

 

Based on strategic planning work by Whittle Consulting
and considering the inferred resources, the use of Nuton offers the opportunity to extend the mine life beyond conventional leaching
by 30 years or more.

 

Based on preliminary scoping testing, the Nuton®
Technology offers the potential for copper recoveries of up to 85% on primary copper sulfide ore bodies, depending on the specific mineralogy
make-up of the mineral resource. At Los Azules, the Nuton® Technology has the potential to economically process the large
primary sulfide copper resource as an alternative to a concentrator, with low incremental capital following the oxide and supergene leach,
no tailings requirement, and a smaller environmental footprint. Producing copper cathode with Nuton® on-site also has
the advantage of simplifying outbound logistics in comparison to copper concentrates and offers a finished product to the domestic and
international market.

 

The outcomes modelled using Nuton’s proprietary
computational fluid dynamics model are very encouraging and indicate that unoptimized copper recovery to cathode from primary material
using Nuton® Technology should range from 73% to 79%. Furthermore, recovery from secondary material using Nuton®
Technology is high, ranging from 80% to 86%. This could provide a significant opportunity to optimize the mine plan and reduce the need
for selective mining, as simultaneous stacking of both secondary and primary mineralization will not impact the copper recovery of either
material type. Based on the current resource estimate, using Nuton® Technology in the project could have a significant
positive impact on the expected life of the mine and the projected cashflow, without significantly increasing the initial capital investment
required.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 22 
 
 

 

 

Column leaching of Los Azules composite samples
at Nuton® facilities was completed in Q1 2024 and used to support modelled metallurgical recoveries. Testing has been
completed at Nuton facilities with a Phase 2a program, developing process design criteria and evaluating performance tested at a 10 m
tall, large column scale. Fully mass balanced results are expected to be completed in Q4 2025. Preliminary assessment of the assay data
suggests similar results to those provided in the PEA document. Besides refining and validating modelled data through additional column
testing for Los Azules, Nuton is progressing an industrial-scale deployment at the Johnson Camp Mine (JCM) owned and operated by Gunnison
Copper Corporation Inc. in Arizona, USA. This deployment’s aim is to validate the Nuton® Technology package, from
design and engineering to commissioning and operation, and to de-risk future Nuton deployments like the potential one at Los Azules.

 

McEwen Copper and Nuton are actively collaborating
to deploy the Nuton® Technology at Los Azules. While a formal commercial agreement is not yet in place, both parties are
committed to working in good faith toward establishing such an arrangement.

 

10. Development Timeline

 

The Gantt chart below presents a simplified project
development timeline based on regional contractor inputs and long-lead equipment and materials delivery assumptions provided by vendors.

 

The schedule assumes that the feasibility study
work is completed in October 2025, necessary permits to begin work are completed, and initial financing is in place to achieve the
scheduled milestones.

 

Following this Level 3 schedule, the SX/EW plant
could start in 2029, and the first cathode would be produced in 2030.

 

Continued…

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 23 
 
 

 

 

Figure 5: - Gantt Chart for Los Azules Project
Development Timeline

 

 

 

11. Strategic Partnerships

 

McEwen Copper partnered with Nuton to
evaluate the application of Nuton® Technology for the treatment of primary mineralization at the Los Azules project. Nuton
also holds a 17.2% equity stake in McEwen Copper.

 

Stellantis, the world's fifth largest
automaker, is also a strategic shareholder with an 18.3% interest. The partnership includes a copper cathode and concentrates
purchase rights agreement and a joint commitment to achieving carbon neutrality by 2038.

 

As of the date of this release, McEwen Copper
has received preliminary finance proposals with referential conditions from Tier 1 OEMs including, Komatsu, and Sandvik,
as well as from European export credit agencies, covering 85 to 100% of the major mechanical equipment and 50% of the local construction
cost for the project. The Argentine power company YPF Luz has signed an agreement with Los Azules to provide financing for
the upgrades to the power grid and the power supply to the mine site and has agreed to provide 100% renewable power to the project. These
proposals open the opportunity to finance more than $1.1 billion in investments for the crushing and handling system, SX/EW plant,
acid plant, drilling fleet, and hauling and loading mining fleet, incorporating state-of-the-art technologies that support our regenerative
guiding principles and commitment to sustainable innovation.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 24 
 
 

 

 

In September 2025, McEwen Copper announced
that it had signed a collaboration agreement with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank
Group, to support the alignment of the Los Azules copper project with IFC’s ESG standards for potential future financing.
This represents an important milestone in the company’s broader financing strategy, helping to align the project with top-tier
sustainability standards while paving the way for IFC as a potential lead lender and equity partner.

 

12. Study Contributors and Qualified Persons

 

The FS Technical Report is prepared in accordance
with the requirements set forth by Canadian National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”) for the disclosure of material information
and is intended to meet the requirements of a Feasibility Study (FS) level of study and disclosure as defined in the regulations and
supporting reference documents. The effective date of the report is September 3, 2025.

 

The report was prepared by Samuel Engineering
Inc., with contributions from Knight Piésold Consulting, AGP Mining Consultants Inc, Nuton, a Rio Tinto Venture,
E-Mining Technology S.A., Call & Nicholas, Inc., Itasca Consulting Group, Inc., CRM-SA,
LLC, McLennan Design/Perkins&Will, Whittle Consulting Pty Ltd, Techint S.A.C.I., BW Hidrogeología
y Medioambiente, and SRK Consulting UK Limited, under the supervision of David Tyler, McEwen Copper Project Director.

 

The feasibility study and associated disclosures
have been reviewed and verified by the following qualified persons under NI 43-101 – Standards
of Disclosure for Mineral Projects:

 

-Technical
 aspects of this news release related to Project Execution, Development information, and other
 information excluding mineral resource disclosure, have been reviewed and verified by James
 L. Sorensen – FAusIMM Reg. No. 221286 with Samuel Engineering.

 

-Technical
 aspects of this news release related to McEwen information, and other information excluding
 mineral resource disclosure, have been reviewed and verified by David Tyler – SME Registered
 Member. No. 3288830. He is the Project Director of the Los Azules Project and is not
 independent of the issuer.

 

-Technical
 aspects of this news release related to Metallurgical Summary and Process Information, have
 been reviewed and verified by Michael McGlynn – SME Registered Member No. 4149430
 with Samuel Engineering.

 

-Disclosure
 related to the updated Los Azules mineral resource estimate has been reviewed and approved
 by Jeff Sullivan – FAusIMM Reg. No. 201778 with CRM-SA, LLC.

 

-Disclosure
 related to the initial Los Azules mining, and mineral reserve estimate has been reviewed
 and approved by Gordon Zurowski, P.Eng with AGP Mining Consultants.

 

-Technical
 aspects of this news release related to Financial Modeling, have been reviewed and verified
 by Steve Pozder – P.E. with Samuel Engineering.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 25 
 
 

 

 

13. End Notes

 

(8) Project capital
intensity is defined as Initial Capex ($) / LOM Avg. Annual Copper Production (lbs or tonnes per year) or as LOM Capex ($) / LOM Copper
Production (lbs or tonnes). C1 cash costs per pound produced is defined as the cash cost incurred at each processing stage, from mining
through to recoverable copper delivered to the market, net of any by-product credits. All-in sustaining costs (AISC) per pound of copper
produced adds production royalties, non-recoverable VAT and sustaining capital costs to C1. AISC margin is the ratio of AISC to gross
revenue. Capital intensity, C1 cash costs per pound of copper produced, AISC per pound of copper produced, and AISC margin are all non-GAAP
financial metrics. Numbers may not total due to rounding.

 

(9) Annual earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure.

 

(10) 2017 NI 43-101
Technical Report on Los Azules Project, Hatch Engineering (Throughput of 120,000 tpd of mineralized material).

 

(11) 2023 NI 43-101 Technical
Report on Los Azules Project, Samuel Engineering.

 

(12) Kilograms of Carbon
Dioxide Equivalent per tonne of Copper Equivalent produced. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent means having the same global warming potential
as any other greenhouse gas.

 

(13) Skarn Associates Copper
Mine GHG and Energy Intensity Curve Generator, June 2025 dataset for the year 2030. The E1 metric includes all GHG emissions from
mine to refined metal. Skarn recommends E1 intensity as the most suitable metric for comparing operations, allowing SXEW and concentrate
producers to be evaluated on the same curve, at the same product boundary - refined copper cathode.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news release contains certain forward-looking
statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Inc.'s estimates,
forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results for both its consolidated operations and those of McEwen
Copper Inc. (“McEwen Copper“, “the company”). Forward-looking statements and information regarding McEwen Inc.
and McEwen Copper (“the companies”) are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered
reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies,
and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events
could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or
future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include,
but are not limited to, fluctuations in the market price of precious and base metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social
and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the companies to receive or receive in a timely manner permits
or other approvals required in connection with operations, the risk that the RIGI regime may be curtailed, extinguished or amended,
risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related
to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources
and reserves, foreign exchange volatility, foreign exchange controls, foreign currency risk, and other risks. Readers should not place
undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The companies undertake
no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date
hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2024, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information
on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding McEwen Inc. and McEwen
Copper. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 26 
 
 

 

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do
not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of
McEwen Inc. and McEwen Copper.

 

Want News Fast?

 

Subscribe to our email list:

 

https://www.mcewenmining.com/contact-us/#section=followUs 

 

Contact Information

 

 
 
 WEB SITE 
 
 SOCIAL MEDIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 www.mcewenmining.com
 
 McEwen Inc
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mceweninc
 
 
 
 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewen-mining-inc-
 
 
 
 CONTACT INFORMATION
 
 X:
 x.com/mceweninc
 
 
 
 150 King Street West 
 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mceweninc
 
 
 
 Suite 2800, PO Box
 24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toronto, ON, Canada 
 
 McEwen Copper
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/ mcewencopper
 
 
 
 M5H 1J9 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 
 
 Twitter:
 twitter.com/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 Investor Relations: 
 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mcewencopper 
 
 
 
 (866)-441-0690 - Toll free
 line
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (647)-258-0395 
 
 Rob McEwen
 
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mcewenrob 
 
 
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 
 LinkedIn:
 https://www.linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24
 
 
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 McEwen Inc.Page 27