EX-99.1
2
a19-9981_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
Fatality at the Gold Bar Mine, Nevada
 
TORONTO, May 13, 2019 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is deeply saddened to report that a fatal accident involving a contractor’s employee occurred today at the Gold Bar Mine in Nevada.
 
The Company has initiated an investigation into the accident, we are working with our contractor and the local authorities to determine what happened.
 
The accident involved a haul truck that overturned while operating at the site, and the individual who was fatally injured was its driver. There were no other injuries associated with the accident.
 
Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner said, “We are all deeply saddened by the tragic loss of life on our mine site. Our immediate focus is to support his family, friends and colleagues at this most difficult time. Safety for everyone on our mine sites is our highest priority, an investigation is underway to determine how this happened.”
 
ABOUT MCEWEN MINING
 
McEwen has the goal to qualify for inclusion in the S&P 500 Index by creating a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas. McEwen’s principal assets consist of: the San José mine in Santa Cruz, Argentina (49% interest); the Black Fox mine in Timmins, Canada; the Fenix Project in Mexico; the Gold Bar mine in Nevada; and the large Los Azules copper project in Argentina, advancing towards development.
 
McEwen has approximately 360 million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 22% of the shares.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. The Company’s dividend policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board of Directors and is subject to change based on certain factors such as the capital needs of the Company and its future operating results. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 

 

 

 
CONTACT INFORMATION:
 

Mihaela Iancu 

Website: www.mcewenmining.com 

150 King Street West 

Investor Relations 

 

Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24 

(647)-258-0395 ext 320 

Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob 

Toronto, ON, Canada 

info@mcewenmining.com 

 

M5H 1J9 

 

Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining 

(866)-441-0690 

 

 

 

 

Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining 

 
 
2