EX-99.1
2
tm262490d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

 

McEwen Inc. and Canadian Gold Corp. Announce
Closing of Arrangement

 

Toronto, Ontario and Flin Flon, Manitoba –
January 6, 2026 – McEwen Inc. (“McEwen”) (NYSE/TSX:MUX) and Canadian Gold Corp. (“Canadian Gold”)
(TSX-V:CGC) are pleased to announce the completion of the previously announced business combination between McEwen and Canadian Gold by
way of statutory plan of arrangement (the “Arrangement”). Shareholders of Canadian Gold approved the Arrangement on
December 5, 2025 and a final order approving the Arrangement was issued by the British Columbia Supreme Court on December 10,
2025, as amended by a further order of the British Columbia Supreme Court according to the Amending Agreement described below.

 

The Arrangement was completed under the Business
Corporations Act (British Columbia) and was deemed to become effective at 8:00 a.m. Vancouver time on January 5, 2026. Under
the terms of the Arrangement Agreement, which was negotiated at arms-length, each holder of the common shares of Canadian Gold (each,
a “Canadian Gold Share”) will receive 0.0225 McEwen common shares (each, a “McEwen Share”) for each
Canadian Gold Share held.

 

The shares of Canadian Gold are expected to be
delisted from the TSX Venture Exchange effective as of the close of market on January 7, 2026. Canadian Gold will submit an application
to cease to be a reporting issuer under applicable Canadian securities laws and to otherwise terminate its public reporting requirements.

 

“On behalf of our Board of Directors
and our management, I welcome Canadian Gold shareholders to McEwen. This is an exciting time for gold investors, and we see strong
exploration and development potential of Tartan, which we believe will significantly contribute to shareholder value. Our immediate priorities
are to accelerate and expand the scope of exploration, initiate mine plan engineering and advance production permitting to enable us to
timely restart the mine. We also expect to publish an updated resource estimate by the end of February,” said Rob McEwen, Chairman
and Chief Owner.

 

Amending Agreement

 

McEwen and Canadian Gold have also entered into
an amending agreement to the arrangement agreement (the “Amending Agreement”) in order to address certain requirements
of the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"). Pursuant to the Amending Agreement, all Canadian Gold Shares held by Mr. Rob
McEwen will be exchanged on closing for subscription receipts of McEwen, rather than McEwen Shares.

 

Under the original arrangement agreement, Mr. McEwen
was to receive for his Canadian Gold Shares up to 1% of newly issued McEwen Shares, with the balance of the consideration to be paid in
subscription receipts. In accordance with the Amending Agreement, all Canadian Gold shares held by Mr. McEwen will now be exchanged
solely for subscription receipts, which will convert into McEwen Shares upon receipt of shareholder approval at a meeting of McEwen shareholders.
Such shareholder approval is expected to be sought at the next annual meeting of McEwen shareholders. If this approval is not obtained,
McEwen will satisfy the consideration for such subscription receipts in cash, in accordance with the terms of the Amending Agreement.

 

 1
 
 

 

The amendments apply only to Mr. McEwen and
do not affect the consideration to be received by other Canadian Gold shareholders.

 

Information for Canadian Gold Shareholders

 

Certificates formerly representing Canadian Gold
Shares now represent only the right to receive McEwen Shares to which the holders are entitled pursuant to the Arrangement.

 

In order to receive their McEwen Shares, registered
shareholders of Canadian Gold must deposit their share certificates or DRS advice(s) with a completed Letter of Transmittal, as set
forth in the information circular of Canadian Gold dated October 30, 2025. The Letter of Transmittal was mailed to registered shareholders
together with the meeting materials for the Canadian Gold meeting and it is also available on Canadian Gold's SEDAR+ profile on www.sedarplus.ca.

 

Canadian Gold shareholders who own their shares
through a broker or other intermediary should contact such broker or other intermediary regarding their receipt of McEwen Shares under
the Arrangement. Further information regarding the Arrangement, including instructions on how to exchange Canadian Gold Shares for McEwen
Shares, is set out in the management information circular of Canadian Gold dated October 30, 2025, a copy of which is available on
the profile of Canadian Gold on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca.

 

About McEwen

 

McEwen shares trade on both the NYSE and
TSX under the ticker MUX.

 

McEwen provides its shareholders with exposure
to a growing base of gold and silver production in addition to a very large copper development project, all in the
Americas. The gold and silver mines are in prolific mineral-rich regions of the world: the Cortez Trend in Nevada, USA, the Timmins district
of Ontario, Canada, and the Deseado Massif in Santa Cruz province, Argentina. McEwen is also reactivating its El Gallo gold and silver
mine in Mexico.

 

The Company has a 46.4% interest in McEwen Copper,
which owns the large, long-life, advanced-stage Los Azules copper development project in San Juan province, Argentina –
a region that hosts some of the country’s largest copper deposits. According to the last financing for McEwen Copper, the implied
value of McEwen’s ownership interest is US$456 million.

 

The Los Azules copper project is designed to be
one of the world’s first regenerative copper mines and carbon neutral by 2038. Its Feasibility Study results were announced
in the press release dated October 7, 2025.

 

McEwen also recently purchased 27.3% of Paragon
Advanced Labs Inc., a newly listed public company that is deploying PhotonAssay™ units around the world, a technology that the Company
believes is poised to become the new industry standard for assaying precious and base metals, with Paragon aiming to be one of the leading
service providers.

 

Chairman and Chief Owner Rob McEwen has
invested over US$200 million personally and takes a salary of $1 per year, aligning his interests with shareholders. He
is a recipient of the Order of Canada, a member of the Canadian Mining Hall of Fame and a winner of the EY Entrepreneur of the Year (Energy)
award. His objective is to build MUX’s profitability, share value and eventually implement a dividend policy, as he did while building
Goldcorp Inc.

 

 2
 
 

 

McEwen Contact Info and Social Media:

 

 
 WEB SITE 
 
 SOCIAL MEDIA
 
 
 
 www.mcewenmining.com
 
 McEwen
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mceweninc
 
 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mceweninc 
 
 CONTACT INFORMATION
 
 X:
 X.com/mceweninc
 
 150 King Street West 
 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mceweninc
 
 Suite 2800, PO Box 24 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toronto, ON, Canada 
 
 McEwen Copper
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/ mcewencopper
 
 M5H 1J9 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 X:
 X.com/mcewencopper
 
 Relationship with Investors: 
 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mcewencopper 
 
 (866)-441-0690 - Toll free line
 
 
 
 
 
 (647)-258-0395 
 
 Rob McEwen
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mcewenrob 
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 X: 
 X.com/robmcewenmux 
 
 

Neither the NYSE, TSX or TSX-V have reviewed
and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by the management
of McEwen and Canadian Gold.

 

Forward-Looking Statements

 

This news release contains "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. All statements, other than statements of historical
fact, are forward-looking statements and are based on expectations, estimates and projections as at the date of this news release. Any
statement that involves discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions, future
events or performance (often but not always using phrases such as "expects", or "does not expect", "is expected",
 "anticipates" or "does not anticipate", "plans", "budget", "scheduled", "forecasts",
 "estimates", "believes" or "intends" or variations of such words and phrases or stating that certain actions,
events or results "may" or "could", "would", "might" or "will" be taken to occur or
be achieved) are not statements of historical fact and may be forward-looking statements.

 

In this news release, forward-looking statements
relate to, among other things, statements regarding: the timing of delisting of shares of Canadian Gold from the TSX Venture Exchange,
exploration and development potential of Tartan, plans to accelerate and expand the scope of exploration, timing of mine plan engineering
and production permitting to potentially restart the mine, the timing of publishing of an updated resource estimate, goals to have Los
Azules copper become one of the world's first regenerative copper mines and achieve carbon neutrality by 2038, and the objectives for
McEwen. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual
results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. See McEwen Inc.'s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under
the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking
statements and information regarding McEwen.

 

McEwen and Canadian Gold expressly disclaim any
intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise
except as otherwise required by applicable securities legislation.

 

 3