EX-99.1
2
a14-20836_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
Please join us today at 11:30 a.m. Mountain time for a live webcast of McEwen Mining’s Precious Metals Summit presentation.
 
View the live presentation here
http://www.gowebcasting.com/conferences/2014/09/10/precious-metals-summit/day/2
 

 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements
 
The above referenced presentation contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward- looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this presentation, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, technical, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, risks related to the cost of transferring or otherwise allocating funds between operating jurisdictions, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, risks related to permitting and the projected timeframes to receive the necessary permits, risks associated with mining operations, the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, property title, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards,
 

 
uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and Quarterly Report or Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended June 30, 2014 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this presentation are qualified by this cautionary statement.