EX-99.1
2
a12-19756_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dear McEwen
 Mining Shareholders, The first gold pour at El Gallo Phase 1 in Mexico is
 right around the corner! The below videos will help answer some common
 shareholder questions regarding mining, operations, and processing: 1) How
 does open pit mining work? 2) What does a crushing plant look like? 3) Help
 me picture a heap leach pad... Video answers can be found below: To view this
 week's McEwen Mining Community Story from our San José Mine, please click
 here. For more information, please contact: Jenya Meshcheryakova Investor
 Relations Tel: (647) 258-0395 ext 410 Toll Free: (866) 441-0690 Fax: (647)
 258-0408 If you are not able to view the invitation above, please click here.
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Proud
 MemberMCEWENMININGMUX INTRODUCTION TO MINING PROGRAM AT THE SAN JOSÉ MINE IN
 ARGENTINA The San José mine is an underground operation that is 49% owned by
 McEwen Mining and 51% owned by Hochschild Mining. The mine is located in
 Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, 20 km North of Goldcorp’s Cerro Negro project
 in the Northwest corner of the Deseado Massif. While striving to reach our
 operational and exploration goals, McEwen Mining and Hochschild Mining,
 organize a variety of programs that are focused on sustainable development,
 through education and growth within the local community. One of the main
 social responsibility programs implemented at San José is the “Introduction
 to Mining Program” (IMP). With San José being the first underground mine in
 Argentina, there was a need to develop skilled miners within the immediate
 area. IMP is a two-month course and consists of both, theoretical and
 hands-on training. The program is targeted at youth living near San José,
 with the purpose of introducing basic mining knowledge and giving employment
 opportunities. The lectures are taught in Perito Moreno, a town located near
 the mine and is organized with the support of the local government. Hands-on
 sessions are held at San José and allow students to apply their newly
 attained knowledge at a real mine. Those excelling in the program are
 typically offered employment and eagerly join McEwen Mining. “The course
 allowed me to gain new knowledge and skills, which led me to where I am
 today. Thanks, to this opportunity, I can provide my children with a better
 standard of living and comfort. Now I can think about the future!” Daniel
 López (age 28), a father of two, has been living in Perito Moreno with his
 wife for 3 years. Daniel used to work as a bricklayer and in October 2011,
 decided to enroll in the IMP course. In December 2011, Daniel completed the
 program with the best score in his class. In February 2012, he started
 working as a Sampler in the Geology area and has now progressed to more
 advanced areas of the mine. Since the program launched in 2005, 31 IMP
 courses have been delivered and over 600 people from Perito Moreno and
 surrounding communities have participated. More than 200 people have joined
 McEwen Mining through the IMP, discovering a new career that allows for a
 better lifestyle and a brighter future. This year, McEwen Mining and
 Hochschild Mining are planning additional courses with the hope that people
 like Daniel join the program and become a member of the San José team. McEwen
 Mining is thrilled to participate in this growing Argentinian community.
 Graduating Class, December 2011 Daniel López, February 2012 Contact
 information : Jenya Meshcheryakova info@mcewenmining.com 1.866.441.0690