EX-99.1
2
tm2215144d2_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

McEwen Mining Announces Senior Management Changes

 

TORONTO, May 6, 2022 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE:
MUX) (TSX: MUX)(“McEwen Mining” or the “Company”) announces that Anna Ladd-Kruger, Chief Financial Officer,
has decided to retire to focus on her health and family; she will depart after the first quarter reporting is complete and an orderly
transition is in place. CFO responsibilities will be assumed on an interim basis by Perry Y. Ing until a new executive transitions into
the position. Mr. Ing, CA, CPA, CFA, is an experienced executive who previously served as CFO of the Company and its predecessor from
2008 to 2015 and subsequently served as CFO of Kirkland Lake Gold and, most recently, of Mountain Province Diamonds.

 

Additionally, Peter Mah, Chief Operating Officer,
is stepping down for personal reasons on June 3rd. Responsibility for oversight of operations will be assumed on an interim
basis by William (Bill) Shaver, currently a director of the Company. Mr. Shaver, P. Eng., is a seasoned
mining executive with over 50 years of management and executive experience in all facets of mine design, construction, and operations.
In 1980, he was a co-founder of Dynatec Corporation, which became one of the leading contracting and mine operating groups in North America.
Most recently, he served as Chief Operating Officer of INV Metals before its sale to Dundee Precious Metals.

 

The CEO and Board of Directors are currently preparing
transition plans and a search for candidates for both roles is underway. We thank Anna and Peter for their contributions and wish them
well in the future.

 

The focus of the Company going forward is on stabilizing
its operations after a challenging period, divesting certain assets, and advancing our most significant value driver, the giant Los Azules
copper project, towards key milestones (PEA, IPO, PFS).

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news release contains certain forward-looking
statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the
"Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements
and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are
inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance
that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from
those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially
from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and
security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or
other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of
production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards,
uncertainty as to the calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or
update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required
by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, and other filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors
relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made
in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not
accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by the management of
McEwen Mining Inc.

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified gold and silver
producer and explorer focused in the Americas with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, and Argentina. It also has a large exposure to copper
through its subsidiary McEwen Copper, owner of the Los Azules copper deposit in Argentina.

 

 
 CONTACT INFORMATION:
 
 
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll-Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter: twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9
 
 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2