EX-99.1
2
a13-5834_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
Dear Shareholders,
 
We are thrilled to share with you an article that we had translated from Spanish about the result of our presence in Mexico, and a community story in Argentina.
 
Have a terrific day!
 

For further information contact: 

 

 

 

Jenya Meshcheryakova
Investor Relations
Tel: (647) 258-0395 ext 410 
Toll Free: (866) 441-0690 
Fax: (647) 258-0408
 
Facebook: www.facebook.com/McEwenRob 
Twitter: www.twitter.com/McEwenMining 

Mailing Address 
181 Bay Street Suite 4750 
Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 
PO box 792 
E-mail: info@mcewenmining.com 
 
If you no longer want to receive announcements from us, please do not reply to this e-mail. Instead simply click here.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Mocorito 18/02/2013 Mocorito, Sinaloa.- A thousand and
 one stories are written every day at the Pangea mine (McEwen Mining’s Mexican
 Subsidiary) in El Magistral town, Mocorito municipality. Everyday men and
 women work hard looking for the mineral wealth Mother Nature has given to us.
 The opening of this mining company in Mocorito has provided for many families
 currently working in the area. Most of the employees are from different towns
 in Mocorito and the minority of them are foreign. The settlement of the mine
 in the municipality of Mocorito has been a blessing for its residents. Some
 of them had to migrate to other places, mostly to the United States, looking
 for a job to pay for their house and family expenses. Now their stories have
 changed for the better as they no longer have to leave their hometowns
 looking for employment because the company has hired them and provided them
 with benefit plans. Mine Tour. In a journey to the mine, we were able to
 experience the world of people working there and had the opportunity to
 interview some employees. Some of them have returned from the United States
 to work at the mine. Stories. For Noé Chávez, an Ecology and Environment
 Assistant, life has changed radically. He had migrated to the United States
 pursuing the American dream, but his story changed since the company launched
 operations. “I am from Bacamopa, Mocorito, before I started working at the
 mine I was in the United States looking for a job, things there are difficult
 and very different. When my wife told me Pangea was working in El Magistral I
 decided to come back and was fortunately hired. I started to work back in
 2007, I have several years here already.” Stories like his are written every
 day. Another case is Roberto Quintero García, who had previously struggled
 looking for a job; his situation has also improved. “For some time I had
 struggled to get a job, but fortunately I met an engineer that was working
 here and he recommended me. I am now happily working here, I say happily
 because now I can provide for my family.” Strong women. Not only men success
 stories unfold at Pangea, women’s stories do too. Although it could be hard
 to believe, women at the mine operate trucks, a job that is typically
 considered for men Mining Company Benefits Mocorito Residents With Employment
 Since the operations started, this mining company has given employment
 opportunities to the habitants of the region. in our Mexican culture,
 however; they have set the example and made such an idea part of the past.
 One of these women is Lourdes Labrado , resident of El Valle, she is a single
 mother and a Truck Operator. “In our Mexican culture it could be said that a
 truck operator job is for men, but we are setting an example of the opposite,
 I am a single mother and all women here are in the same situation,
 nonetheless we have shown we can overcome our situation. We are lucky we were
 hired at the mine.” For Oralia Meléndez it was a blessing to have been given
 a job opportunity in the mine. “My job is the preparation of samples, I have been
 working here for many years, and that has allowed me to support my family.”
 Article link in Spanish: http://www.debate.com.mx/ eldebate/noticias/default.
 asp?IdArt=12973799&IdCat=17402 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 The San José mine is 49% owned by McEwen Mining and 51%
 owned by Hochschild Mining, and is located in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina.
 Currently, 1,200 direct jobs have been created through the mine, plus those
 that have been generated through secondary industries. In addition to making
 a profit for our shareholders, our objectives in Argentina are to educate,
 build, employ, and inspire entrepreneurship! McEwen Mining is passionate
 about finding ways to support the advancement of Perito Moreno, a neighboring
 town located 80 km away from San José. During 2012, the mine made significant
 contributions to a variety of areas within the community, which included
 infrastructure improvements, equipment donations to the town’s hospital,
 Oscar Natale, and establishing a development centre in order to advance
 business growth within Perito Moreno. As part of McEwen and Hochschild’s
 Social Responsibility Program, the mine invested an additional USD$1.2
 million in 2012 for the benefit of the community. The objective was to
 improve Perito Moreno’s facilities, infrastructure and education. Equipment
 donations were made to the fire station, and vehicles were donated to the
 local police. In April, we participated in the development of the New Hope
 Centre; an integrative program aimed to improve the lives of seniors and
 people with disabilities. Since 2005, the San José mine has invested
 USD$780,000 in educational programs designed to train people in underground
 mining. Over 600 people have completed the program, with a staggering 40% of
 those graduates hired as employees of San José. Link to story. Both McEwen
 and Hochschild have contributed to the founding of the first Technical
 Institute of Perito Moreno. This non-profit international institute is
 dedicated to educating and training young professionals in careers related to
 the application of technology in the operation and maintenance of industrial
 activities. McEwEn MINING GETTING INVOLVED IN ARGENTINA McEwen Mining and its
 partner Hochschild will continue working to strengthen our commitment to the
 Perito Moreno community in 2013 through programs that are designed to have a
 lasting benefit for its citizens. Contact information : Jenya Meshcheryakova
 | info@mcewenmining.com | 1.866.441.0690 MCEWEN MINING MUX Equipment donations
 were made to Perito Moreno’s local hospital in 2012. Technical Institute of
 Perito Moreno, a non-profit educational centre.