EX-99.1
5
tm214636d3_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

McEwen Mining Announces US$31.5 Million
Registered Direct Offering of Common Stock

 

TORONTO, ONTARIO, February
5, 2021 – McEwen Mining Inc. (the “Company” or “McEwen”) (NYSE and TSX: MUX), announces an oversubscribed
registered direct offering with several existing and new institutional investors for the
sale of an aggregate of 30,000,000 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $1.05 per share (the “Offering”).

 

“The
timing of this offering was critical for two reasons: 1. It completes the funding required to bring the Froome deposit into production
later this year. Froome is our production bridge to the future growth of the Fox Complex, where we see potential for higher gold
production, lower cost per ounce and a longer mine life; and 2. It will strengthen our balance sheet and working capital position,”
commented Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner.

 

Cantor Fitzgerald &
Co. and Roth Capital Partners are acting as exclusive co-lead placement agents for the Offering in the United States and internationally
(except Canada).

 

The Offering is expected
to close on February 9, 2021 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including approvals from the TSX and the NYSE.

 

The shares of common stock
described above are being offered in the United States pursuant to an effective “shelf” registration statement (File
No. 333-224476) that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and was declared effective by
the SEC on July 6, 2018. The securities may be offered only by means of a prospectus. A prospectus supplement
and the accompanying prospectus will be filed with the SEC. The prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus, when
filed, will be available on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov and may also be obtained from Cantor
Fitzgerald & Co., Attention: Capital Markets, 499 Park Ave., 6th Floor, New York, New York 10022, or by telephone
at (212) 829-7122, or by e-mail at prospectus@cantor.com, and from Roth Capital Partners
at 888 San Clemente Drive, Suite 400, Newport Beach, CA 92660, (800) 678-9147.

 

This news release shall
not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities described herein, nor shall there
be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior
to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such state or jurisdiction.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

This
news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information
expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts,
projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are
necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently
subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no
assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could
differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results
or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and
information include, but are not limited to, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic,
fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks
associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other
approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and
commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets,
environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date
hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a
result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under
the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the
forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this
news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

 

The NYSE and TSX have
not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been
prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen
Mining is a diversified gold and silver producer and explorer focused in the Americas with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico
and Argentina. It also owns a large copper deposit in Argentina.

 

 
 
 CONTACT INFORMATION:

 
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 
 
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9
 

 

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2