EX-99.1
3
tm228051d2_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

McEwen Mining
Closes Flow-Through Financing

 

TORONTO,
March 2, 2022 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is pleased to announce the closing of the previously announced
private placement offering (the “Offering”) of 14,500,000 flow-through common shares (within the meaning of subsection 66(15)
of the Income Tax Act (Canada)) priced at US$1.04 (Cdn$1.325) per flow-through common share for total gross proceeds of US$15,080,000
(Cdn$19,212,500). The sole bookrunner for the Offering was Cantor Fitzgerald Canada Corporation and PearTree Canada structured the flow-though
donation placement.

 

The
proceeds of this Offering will be used exclusively for qualifying Canadian Exploration Expenditures (CEE) on McEwen’s properties
in the Timmins region.

 

This press release is not an offer
of common shares for sale in the United States. The common shares may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration
or an available exemption from the registration requirements of the US. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "U.S. Securities
Act") and applicable U.S. state securities laws. McEwen will not make any public offering of the securities in the United States.
The common shares have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act, or any state securities laws.

 

This press release shall not constitute
an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities, in any jurisdiction in which
such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

 

This
news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date
of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to
future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions
that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties,
risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual
results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that
could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements
and information include, but are not limited to, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals,
mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation
to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the
construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state
of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to the calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other
risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the
date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information
or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2020, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors",
for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding
the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed
and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by the management
of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified gold
and silver producer and explorer focused in the Americas with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also has a large
exposure to copper through its subsidiary McEwen Copper, owner of the Los Azules copper deposit in Argentina.

 

 
    CONTACT INFORMATION:
 
 
 
    Investor Relations:
    (866)-441-0690 Toll-Free
    (647)-258-0395
 
    Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
    info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter: twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9 
 
 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2