EX-99.1
4
tm1922051d6_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

 

MCEWEN MINING ANNOUNCES PROPOSED PUBLIC OFFERING

 

TORONTO, November 19, 2019 -
McEwen Mining Inc. (the “Company” or “McEwen”) (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) today announced its
intention to offer shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase its common stock in a registered underwritten public
offering, subject to market and other conditions. McEwen Mining also expects to grant the underwriters a 30-day option
to purchase up to an additional 15% of the shares of common stock and warrants sold in the public offering.

 

The Company intends to use the net proceeds
from the offering for advancing its current mining projects and exploration prospects, for additional operating capital and for
general working capital purposes.

 

Roth Capital Partners and Cantor
Fitzgerald Canada Corporation are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering. The offering is subject to market
and other conditions, and there can be no assurance as to whether or when the offering may be completed, or as to the actual
size or terms of the offering.

 

The securities described above
are being offered pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-224476) that was filed in the United States
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" and declared effective on July 6, 2018 and in Canada. McEwen will file
a preliminary prospectus supplement, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and file a Canadian
preliminary prospectus supplement under the “Northbound” multi-jurisdictional disclosure system with securities
regulatory authorities in each of the provinces of Canada other than Quebec for the offerings to which this communication
relates. Before you invest, you should read the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus and other
documents the issuer has filed with the SEC and Canadian securities regulators for more complete information about the issuer
and these offerings. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at www.sec.gov or by visiting
the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com. Copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus related
to the Offering, when filed, may also be obtained in the U.S. by contacting Roth Capital Partners, LLC, 888 San Clemente
Drive, Newport Beach, CA 92660, Attn: Prospectus Department by calling (800) 678-9147 or in Canada by contacting Cantor
Fitzgerald Canada Corporation, Attention: Equity Capital Markets, 181 University Avenue, Suite 1500, Toronto, ON, M5H 3M7 by
emailing ecmcanada@cantor.com or in the U.S. by contacting Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Attn: Capital Markets, 499
Park Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10022 by emailing prospectus@cantor.com.

 

This news release shall not constitute
an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any state
or other jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under
the securities laws of any such state or other jurisdiction.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified gold and
silver producer and explorer with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also owns a large copper deposit
in Argentina. McEwen’s goal is to create a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas.

 

McEwen has approximately 362.5 million
shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 22% of the shares.

 

 
 
 

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news release and the related prospectuses
and documents incorporated by reference therein contain certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and
information expressed, as at the date of this news release, the Company's estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs
as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and
assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive
uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate.
Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied
by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the
market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign
operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection
with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs
thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation
of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. The Company’s dividend policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board
of Directors and is subject to change based on certain factors such as the capital needs of the Company and its future operating
results. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only
as of the date hereof, or included in the related prospectuses and documents incorporated by reference therein, which speak only
as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a
result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See the prospectuses and documents
incorporated by reference therein, including in the McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2018, as amended, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”,
for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information
regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release and the related prospectuses and
documents incorporated by reference therein are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and
do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management
of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

 CONTACT INFORMATION: 
 
 

 Investor Relations:150 King Street

 (866)-441-0690 Toll FreeWest Suite 2800,

 (647)-258-0395P.O. Box 24

 Toronto, ON, Canada M5H 1J9

 Christina McCarthy ext. 390 

 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320 

 

 info@mcewenmining.com