EX-99.1
2
a12-17680_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

August 3, 2012
Dear Shareholders,
 
Please find below the El Gallo Complex development update and the McEwen Mining community story.
 
Key development highlights over the past two weeks are:
 
· Gold mineralization being placed onto heap leach pad
· Final assembly of process plant nears completion
· Crushers ramping up to designed capacity
 
To view the El Gallo Development Photo Update, please click here.
To view the McEwen Mining Community Story, please click here.
 

For further information contact: 

 

 

 

 

 

Jenya Meshcheryakova 

 

Mailing Address 

Investor Relations 

 

181 Bay Street Suite 4750 

Tel: (647) 258-0395 ext 410 

 

Toronto ON M5J 2T3 

Toll Free: (866) 441-0690 

 

P.O. Box 792 

Fax: (647) 258-0408 

 

E-mail: info@mcewenmining.com 

 
If you no longer want to receive announcements from us, please do not reply to this e-mail. Instead simply click here.
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 The X PRIZE Foundation is a nonprofit organization with a
 mission to stimulate the occurrence of radical breakthroughs for the benefit
 of humanity by organizing large scale, high profile prized competitions. Rob
 McEwen recently donated $300,000 to X PRIZE, on behalf of McEwen Mining.
 Rob’s amount of contribution to the organization so far, totals $2.8 million.
 The Foundation, which was created in 1995, addresses the world’s biggest
 challenges by encouraging investment into research and development, worth far
 beyond the prize itself. The organization motivates and inspires brilliant
 innovators from a variety of disciplines to leverage their intellectual and
 financial capital, thereby forming new industries and revitalizing challenged
 markets. The X PRIZE model is inspired by the famous Orteig Prize, which
 rewarded the first aviator to fly non-stop from New York to Paris in 1927.
 The $25,000 prize was given to Charles Lindbergh who achieved the goal in his
 now famous airplane, The Spirit of St. Louis. The participants of the
 competition spent many times the prize’s actual value on research and
 development to enter the contest. This event was followed by the crucial
 “Lindbergh Boom” – a period of rapid interest and advancement in aviation.
 Today’s multi-billion dollar airline industry demonstrates the power of an
 inspirational challenge that drives intellectual and financial capital into a
 creative direction, causing revolutionary change. The X PRIZE competitions
 are established in the following 4 groups: Life Sciences, Energy and
 Environment, Exploration (Ocean and Deep Space), and Education and Global
 Development. The first team to reach a specifically set goal by the
 Foundation is awarded a prize of US$ 10 million or more. Rather than awarding
 money to recognize past achievements, X PRIZE encourages innovation by
 bringing out competitive and entrepreneurialspirits in participants to create
 the invention’s value in the market place. X PRIZE was born on the global
 radar with the first private race to space. In the race for the prize, 26
 competing teams from 7 nations collectively spent more than $100 million in
 research and development to win the $10 million prize. The competition was
 won by Mojave Aerospace Ventures with its legendary spacecraft, SpaceShipOne,
 funded by Paul Allan (Co-founder, Microsoft). Richard Branson (Chairman,
 Virgin Group) acquired the rights to the invention immediately to start
 Virgin Galactic, and is revolutionizing commercial human travel into space.
 The Los Angeles based organization was founded and is managed by ROB MCEWEN
 DONATES US$ 300,000 TO X PRIZE ON BEHALF OF MCEWEN MINING Proud Member of
 MCEWEN MINING MUX Pg. 1 Rob McEwen, James Cameron, Peter Diamandis, Elon Musk
 and Jim Gianopulos Soar Weightless in the Avatar Zero-G Experience to Support
 The X PRIZE NYSE TSX 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Contact information : Jenya Meshcheryakova
 info@mcewenmining.com 1.866.441.0690 Proud Member of MCEWEN MINING MUX Pg. 2
 Chairman and CEO, Dr. Peter H. Diamandis and Co-Chairman and President,
 Robert K. Weiss. The Foundation is also governed by a group of visionary
 leaders including the Board of Trustees, Vision Circle Members, Spirit of
 Innovation Members and a variety of corporate sponsors. The X PRIZE
 Foundation is a prestigious and globally recognized organization, well known
 for fostering innovation through incentivized competition. As a Board of
 Trustees Member, Rob McEwen helps guide the Foundation by meeting throughout
 the year with fellow board members to brainstorm, debate, and conceptualize X
 PRIZE competitions that address humanity’s grand challenges. Among the
 members are James Cameron (Director, Titanic, Terminator, Avatar), Arianna
 Huffington (Journalist, The Huffington Post), Elon Musk (Co-founder, PayPal
 and Tesla), Larry Page (Co-founder and CEO, Google), Ratan Tata (Chairman,
 Tata Group) and many more. For the full list of Board of Trustees Members
 click here: http://www.xprize.org/about/ board-of-trustees/. As a Vision
 Circle Member, Rob is among the organization’s largest contributors, fueling
 prize competition capacity. Vision Circle Members are X PRIZE’s core
 shareholders; their input is crucial in the Foundation’s long term focus and
 success. Vision Circle Members receive the first option to fund upcoming
 prizes as well as early insights into contest development. For the list of
 Vision Circle Members click here: http://www.xprize.org/about/vision-circle/.
 Among the organization’s current competitions are the Google Lunar X PRIZE, a
 prize for sending an analytical robot to the moon; and the Qualcomm Tricorder
 X PRIZE, a competition for a health metrics tool on a mobile phone. McEwen
 Mining is thrilled to be part of this extraordinary organization, help spur
 innovation and accelerate the rate of positive change across the globe. Rob
 McEwen and his team truly believe the importance of pushing the limits of
 what is currently possible in order to positively affect the way we live on
 this planet. For more information about the X PRIZE Foundation please click
 here: http://www.xprize.org/. Ali Velshi, Chief Business Correspondent, CNN;
 Robert K. Weiss, President, X PRIZE Foundation; Peter C. Farrell, CEO,
 ResMed; Rob McEwen; Peter H. Diamandis, CEO, X PRIZE Foundation SpaceShipOne:
 winner of the Ansari X PRIZE in 2004 NYSE TSX X PRIZE FOUNDATION
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 MUX El Gallo Complex Development Photo Update August 3,
 2012 MCEWEN MINING NYSE TSX
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 2 Crushing Plant Assembly 1 - Cone Crushers 2 - Vibrating
 Screens 3 - Lime Silo 4 - Stackers 4 3 2 1 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 3 Placing gold mineralization onto the heap leach pad. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 4 New access road for heap leach pad. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 5 Final assembly of process plant. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 6 Final assembly of process plant. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 7 Final assembly of process plant. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 8 Loading carbon into columns. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 9 Moving non-mineralized material. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 10 Blast hole drilling in the Samaniego open pit. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 11 Control room for crushers. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 12 Crushers increasing towards full capacity. 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 MUX For further information please contact: Jenya
 Meshcheryakova Investor Relations Tel: (647) 258-0395 x 410 Toll Free: (866)
 441-0690 Fax: (647) 258-0408 Email: info@mcewenmining.com MCEWEN MINING NYSE
 TSX