EX-99.1
3
tm2225256d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

McEwen Copper Completes Oversubscribed US$81.85
Million Offering 

Including a $25 Million Investment by Nuton,
a Rio Tinto Venture

 

TORONTO, Aug 31,
2022 - McEwen Copper Inc., a subsidiary of McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX), is pleased to announce the closing
of the third and final tranche of the previously announced private placement offering (the “Offering”) of up to 8,000,000
common shares of McEwen Copper Inc. priced at US$10.00 per common share. The third tranche is comprised of a $25 million
investment by Rio Tinto’s copper leaching technology venture, Nuton (“Nuton” or the “Investor”),
and $1.85 million from other investors. The total Offering has been increased to 8,185,000 common shares, with the amounts
raised in the three tranches of the private placement totalling $81.85 million.

 

McEwen Copper is well-funded to advance its
Los Azules Project, located in the mining friendly province of San Juan, Argentina. The next milestones are the upcoming drilling season
from October 2022 to June 2023, the completion of an updated preliminary economic assessment (PEA) in early Q1 2023, and the
planned IPO of McEwen Copper in H1 2023.

 

In connection with
the Offering, McEwen Copper entered into a collaboration agreement with Nuton (the "Nuton Collaboration Agreement”) to
advance our understanding of the potential application of heap leach technology at Los Azules, including the testing of Nuton®
Technologies for compatibility with Los Azules copper mineralization. Leaching has many potential economic and environmental benefits
over a conventional milling scenario, including lower water and energy consumption, no large tailings storage facility or dam, and typically
lower capital and operating costs.

 

McEwen Copper Chief Executive Rob McEwen said:
“Los Azules is among the largest undeveloped copper assets in the world. We recognize the potential opportunity of using Nuton
Technologies to produce copper in greater amounts, more rapidly, and with less impact on the environment and water resources. I trust
that our relationship with Nuton and Rio Tinto will accelerate the process of realizing the enormous potential of Los Azules.”

 

Rio Tinto Chief Executive Copper Bold Baatar said:
“This agreement will allow us to evaluate the potential to commercially deploy Rio Tinto’s innovative Nuton Technologies
for copper leaching in McEwen Copper’s planned development of Los Azules. Our Nuton Technologies have the capacity to unlock increased
copper production for Rio Tinto and our partners, with a low carbon footprint and leading environmental performance.”

 

The principal terms of the Nuton Collaboration
Agreement include:

 

·Nuton will invest $25 million in McEwen Copper,
acquiring 2.5 million common shares at $10.00 per common share, for post-closing ownership of 9.73%.

 

·McEwen Copper and Nuton will jointly undertake
copper leach testing using Nuton Technologies with samples from Los Azules. McEwen Copper has agreed to grant exclusivity to Nuton
for one year in the area of novel, patented or trade secret leaching technology, while it will continue its independent test work and
studies using conventional leach technologies.

 

·Nuton will have the right to select one nominee
who will be appointed as a director or observer to the Board of McEwen Copper. This right will continue for as long as Nuton holds
greater than 7.5% of the issued and outstanding shares of McEwen Copper.

 

·McEwen Copper and its controlling shareholders
will not complete a liquidity event (such as the planned IPO) until after March 31, 2023.

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

·McEwen Copper has agreed to limit related
party transactions in certain situations until the earlier of the planned IPO (or alternative liquidity event) or Nuton ceasing to
hold 7.5%.

 

·Customary standstill and lock-up agreement
between the Investor and its affiliates and McEwen Copper and its affiliates.

 

·Other customary representations and warranties.

 

About McEwen Copper

 

McEwen Copper Inc. holds 100% interest in the
Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina and the Elder Creek project in Nevada, USA. McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE/TSX:MUX) owns a
68% share of McEwen Copper.

 

About Los Azules

 

Los Azules was ranked in the top 10 largest undeveloped
copper deposits in the world by Mining Intelligence (2022). Its current copper resources are estimated at 10.2 billion pounds at
a grade of 0.48% Cu (Indicated category) and an additional 19.3 billion pounds at a grade of 0.33% Cu (Inferred category).

 

About Nuton

 

Nuton is an innovative new venture that aims
to help grow Rio Tinto’s copper business. At the core of Nuton is a portfolio of proprietary copper leach-related technologies
and capability – a product of almost 30 years of research and development. Nuton® Technologies offer the potential
to economically unlock copper sulphide resources, copper bearing waste and tailings, and achieve higher copper recoveries on oxide and
transitional material, allowing for a significantly increased copper production. One of the key differentiators of Nuton is the
potential to deliver leading environmental performance, including more efficient water usage, lower carbon emissions, and the ability
to reclaim mine sites by reprocessing mine waste.

 

About Rio Tinto

 

Rio Tinto
is the second largest mining and metals company in the world, operating in 35 countries, and producing the raw materials essential to
human progress. It aims to help pioneer a more sustainable future, from partnering in the development of technology that can make the
aluminum smelting process entirely free of direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, to providing the world with the materials it needs
 – such as copper – to build a new low-carbon economy and products like electric vehicles, charging infrastructure and
smartphones.

 

This press release shall not constitute an offer
to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer,
solicitation or sale would be unlawful.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news release contains certain forward-looking
statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the
 "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements
and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are
inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance
that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from
those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially
from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and
security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or
other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of
production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards,
uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or
update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required
by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 and other filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties
and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and
information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2 
 
 

 

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not
accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen
Mining Inc.

 

 
 WEBSITE
 www.mcewenmining.com
 
 CONTACT INFORMATION
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll-Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext.
 320
 info@mcewenmining.com 
 SOCIAL
 MEDIA 
 
 
 
 McEwen Mining 
 
 Facebook: 
 facebook.com/mcewenmining 
 
 LinkedIn: 
 linkedin.com/company/mcewen-mining-inc- 
 
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/mcewenmining 
 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mcewenmining 
 
 
 
 McEwen Copper 
 
 Facebook: 
 facebook.com/mcewencopper 
 
 LinkedIn: 
 linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper 
 
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/mcewencopper 
 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mcewencopper 
 
 
 
 Rob McEwen 
 
 Facebook: 
 facebook.com/mcewenrob 
 
 LinkedIn: 
 linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24 
 
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/robmcewenmux 
 
 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 3