EX-99.1
2
tm2037450d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit
99.1

 

 

 

MCEWEN MINING UPDATE ON THE
SAN JOSÉ MINE

 

TORONTO, November 30,
2020 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is reporting that a significant increase in Covid-19 infections in the Santa
Cruz province in Argentina has resulting in the temporary lockdown of various mines including our 49%-owned San José mine.
Production for Q4 is likely to be impacted by the shutdown. Limited operations are expected to resume in the coming days, subject
to permission from the authorities.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

 

This
news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed,
as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations
or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates
and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive
uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate.
Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied
by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic,
social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely
manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations
and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets,
environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should
not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof.
The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information
or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2019 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors",
for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information
regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary
statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have
not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been
prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified
gold and silver producer and explorer with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also owns a large copper
deposit in Argentina. McEwen Mining’s goal is to create a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas.

 

McEwen Mining has approximately
409 million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 20% of the shares.

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 CONTACT INFORMATION:

 
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter:
 twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9