EX-99.1
2
a19-9981_2ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
McEWEN MINING INVITES YOU TO BOTH A TECHNICAL SESSION AND
THE ANNUAL MEETING
 
TORONTO, May 14, 2019 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) invites you to attend one or both events to be held in Toronto on May 23, 2019. Both events will be held at the address below, for participants who are not able to attend in person the Technical Information Session will be webcast live. Please RSVP to cd@mcewenmining.com if you plan to attend in person.
 
Thursday, May 23, 2019
 
Vantage Venues, Garden Suite, 16th Floor
150 King Street West, Toronto, ON
M5H 1J9, Canada
Google Map
 
From 2:00 PM to 3:30 PM EDT
 
Technical Information Session
 
Where senior management will deliver detailed presentations about our mining operations, exploration projects, opportunities and goals for the rest of 2019. A brief Q&A session will follow. The technical presentation will be webcast live at:
 
http://www.smpav.ca/sign-in.php?ID=41439
 
At 4:00 PM EDT
 
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
 
The Annual Meeting presentation will take place following the Technical Information Session.
 
ABOUT MCEWEN MINING
 
McEwen has the goal to qualify for inclusion in the S&P 500 Index by creating a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas. McEwen’s principal assets consist of: the San José mine in Santa Cruz, Argentina (49% interest); the Black Fox mine in Timmins, Canada; the Fenix Project in Mexico; the Gold Bar mine in Nevada; and the large Los Azules copper project in Argentina, advancing towards development.
 
McEwen has approximately 360 million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 22% of the shares.
 

 

 

 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. The Company’s dividend policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board of Directors and is subject to change based on certain factors such as the capital needs of the Company and its future operating results. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 
CONTACT INFORMATION:
 

Mihaela Iancu
Investor Relations
(647)-258-0395 ext 320
info@mcewenmining.com 

 

Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 
Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining 

 

150 King Street West
Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
Toronto, Ontario, Canada
M5H 1J9
(866)-441-0690