EX-99.1
2
a15-15831_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
MCEWEN MINING RECEIVES INSURANCE PROCEEDS
 
TORONTO, ONTARIO - (July 16, 2015) - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) (“McEwen Mining” or the “Company”) is pleased to announce it has received reimbursement for approximately 80% of the fair value of the loss due to the robbery that occurred on April 7th, 2015 at the El Gallo Mine. Consequently, the financial impact of the robbery is reduced to approximately US$1.6 million, and McEwen Mining now has cash and precious metals totaling US$33 million.
 
“Our relentless focus is on financial performance, improving the sustainability of our operations, achieving exploration success, and technological innovation at our existing and future mines,” commented Rob McEwen, Chief Owner. “The robbery is behind us, and we have invested in additional security measures to protect our employees and products.”
 
ABOUT MCEWEN MINING (www.mcewenmining.com)
 
The goal of McEwen Mining is to qualify for the S&P 500 by creating a high growth gold/silver producer focused in the Americas. McEwen Mining’s principal assets consist of the San José mine in Santa Cruz, Argentina (49% interest), the El Gallo Mine and El Gallo 2 project in Sinaloa, Mexico, the Gold Bar project in Nevada, USA, and the Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina.
 
As of July 16, 2015 McEwen Mining has an aggregate of 300 million shares of common stock outstanding and issuable upon the exchange of the exchangeable shares. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 25% of the shares of the Company (assuming all outstanding Exchangeable Shares are exchanged for an equivalent number of Common Shares).
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, risk of delisting from a public exchange, and other risks. The Company’s dividend policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board of Directors and is subject to change based on certain factors such as the
 

 
1

 

 
capital needs of the Company and its future operating results. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 

CONTACT INFORMATION: 

 

 

 

 

 

Mihaela Iancu Investor Relations (647) 258-0395 ext 320 info@mcewenmining.com
 
Website mcewenmining.com 

 

Christina McCarthy Director of Corporate Development (647) 258-0395 ext 390 corporatedevelopment@mcewenmining.com
 
Facebook facebook.com/mcewenrob 

 

150 King Street West Suite 2800,P.O. Box 24 Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5H 1J9 (866) 441-0690
Twitter twitter.com/mcewenmining 

 
2