EX-99.1
2
tm2328271d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

McEwen Copper Closes ARS $42 Billion Investment by
Stellantis

 

TORONTO, Oct. 11, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- McEwen
Copper Inc., a subsidiary of McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX), is pleased to announce the closing of an additional ARS $42
billion investment by Stellantis, one of the world’s leading automakers and mobility providers with iconic brands including Abarth,
Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Citroën, Dodge, DS Automobiles, Fiat, Jeep®, Lancia, Maserati, Opel, Peugeot, RAM, Vauxhall, Free2Move
and Leasys.

 

Stellantis N.V. (“Stellantis”), which
in February 2023 invested ARS $30 billion, has today invested an additional ARS $42 billion in Argentina to acquire shares
of McEwen Copper in a private placement of 1,900,000 common shares. The proceeds of the private placement will be used to advance development
of the Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina, and for general corporate purposes.

 

Giving effect to the pending investment by Nuton
LLC, also announced today, Stellantis increases its ownership to 19.4% of McEwen Copper and McEwen Mining owns 47.7% on
a fully diluted basis. The Transaction values McEwen Copper at approximately US$800 million.

 

In connection with the Transaction, McEwen Copper
and certain of its affiliates amended the Investor Rights Agreement with Stellantis (the "Stellantis IRA”) and the Copper Cathodes
and Concentrates Purchase Rights Agreement (the “CCCPRA”), further described below.

 

The Stellantis IRA was amended to make
the Carbon Neutral Commitment by 2038 not contingent on Stellantis maintaining a certain minimum ownership percentage in McEwen Copper.
McEwen Copper intends to implement this commitment independent of Stellantis’ involvement in the Los Azules project.

 

The CCCPRA was amended to provide for a
minimum 10,000 tonne per annum copper cathode offtake, subject to certain restrictions and exclusions, and further defined ‘market
price’ to be paid by Stellantis on future copper cathode purchases pursuant to the CCCPRA.

 

This press release shall not constitute an offer
to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer,
solicitation or sale would be unlawful.

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

About McEwen Copper

 

McEwen Copper Inc. holds a 100% interest in the
Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina and the Elder Creek project in Nevada, USA.

 

Los Azules was ranked in the top 10 largest undeveloped
copper deposits in the world by Mining Intelligence (2022). Its current copper resources are estimated at 10.9 billion pounds
at a grade of 0.40% Cu (Indicated category) and an additional 26.7 billion pounds at a grade of 0.31% Cu (Inferred category).
A PEA published in June 2023 estimated a $2.7 billion after-tax NPV8% at $3.75/lb Cu and a 27-year mine life.

 

After closing the Nuton LLC investment, also announced
today, McEwen Copper will have 30,937,615 common shares outstanding, and its shareholders are McEwen Mining Inc. 47.7%, Stellantis 19.4%,
Nuton 14.5%, Rob McEwen 12.9%, Victor Smorgon Group 3.2%, and other shareholders 2.3%.

 

About Stellantis

 

Stellantis
N.V. (NYSE: STLA / Euronext Milan: STLAM / Euronext Paris: STLAP) is one of the world’s leading automakers and a mobility provider.
Its storied and iconic brands embody the passion of their visionary founders and today’s customers in their innovative products
and services, including Abarth, Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Citroën, Dodge, DS Automobiles, Fiat, Jeep®, Lancia, Maserati, Opel, Peugeot,
Ram, Vauxhall, Free2move and Leasys. Powered by our diversity, we lead the way the world moves – aspiring to become the greatest
sustainable mobility tech company, not the biggest, while creating added value for all stakeholders as well as the communities in which
it operates. For more information, visit www.stellantis.com.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news
release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this
news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events
and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered
reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies,
and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events
could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or
future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include,
but are not limited to, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security
risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals
required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and
the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty
as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements
or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking
statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen
Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating
to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news
release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not
accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen
Mining Inc.

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2 
 
 

 

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining
is a gold and silver producer with operations in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. In addition, it owns approximately 47.7% of McEwen
Copper which owns the large, advanced stage Los Azules copper project in Argentina. The Company’s goal is to improve the productivity
and life of its assets with the objective of increasing its share price and providing a yield. Its Chairman and Chief Owner has personally
provided the company with $220 million and takes an annual salary of $1.

 

 
 
 
 WEB SITE
 www.mcewenmining.com 
 
 CONTACT INFORMATION
 
 150 King Street West 
 Suite 2800, PO Box 24 
 Toronto, ON, Canada 
 M5H 1J9
 
 Relationship with Investors: 
 (866)-441-0690 Toll free 
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 
 
 
 SOCIAL MEDIA 
 
 
 
 
 McEwen Mining
 
 
 Facebook:
LinkedIn:
Twitter:
Instagram: 
 facebook.com/mcewenmining
linkedin.com/company/mcewen-mining-inc-
twitter.com/mcewenmining
instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 
 
 
 
 McEwen Copper
 
 
 Facebook:
LinkedIn:
Twitter:
Instagram: 
 facebook.com/ mcewencopper
linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper
twitter.com/mcewencopper
instagram.com/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rob McEwen 
 
 
 Facebook:
LinkedIn:
Twitter: 
 facebook.com/mcewenrob
linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24
twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 
 
 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 3