EX-99.1
5
tm1922051d7_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

McEwen Mining Announces Closing of US$50
Million Public Offering

 

TORONTO, November 22, 2019
 – McEwen Mining Inc. (the “Company” or “McEwen”) (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is pleased to announce
that it has closed the previously announced underwritten public offering of 37,750,000 units, each unit consisting of one share
of common stock and one half of one warrant to purchase one share of common stock, at a public offering price of $1.325 per unit
for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately US$50,000,000. Each full warrant is exercisable for one share of common stock with
an exercise price of $1.7225 per share and are exercisable immediately and for five years following issuance. The Company has granted
to the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 5,662,500 shares of common stock and/or additional warrants
to purchase up to 2,831,250 shares of common stock at the public offering price per share and per warrant, less the underwriting
discounts and commissions. On November 21, 2019, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase the additional warrants in
full, which were issued at the closing.

 

Roth Capital Partners and Cantor
Fitzgerald Canada Corporation acted as joint book-running managers for the offering. The Company intends to use the net proceeds
from the offering for advancing its current mining projects and exploration prospects, for additional operating capital and for
general working capital purposes.

 

The securities described above were
offered pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (file no. 333-224476) that was filed in the United States with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and declared effective on July 6, 2018 and in Canada. McEwen filed a final prospectus
supplement with the SEC in connection with the offering and a Canadian final prospectus supplement under the “northbound”
multi-jurisdictional disclosure system with securities regulatory authorities in each of the provinces of Canada other than Quebec.
You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at www.sec.gov or by visiting the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com.
Copies of the final prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus related to the offering may also be obtained in the U.S.
by contacting Roth Capital Partners, LLC, 888 San Clemente Drive, Suite 400, Newport Beach, CA 92660, Attn: Prospectus Department,
by calling (800) 678-9147 or in Canada by contacting Cantor Fitzgerald Canada Corporation, Attention: Equity Capital Markets, 181
University Avenue, Suite 1500, Toronto, ON, M5H 3M7 by emailing ecmcanada@cantor.com or in the U.S. by contacting Cantor Fitzgerald
 & Co., Attention: Capital Markets, 499 Park Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10022 by emailing prospectus@cantor.com.

 

This news release shall not constitute
an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities described herein, nor shall there be any sale of
these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration
or qualification under the securities laws of such state or jurisdiction.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified
gold and silver producer and explorer with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also owns a large copper
deposit in Argentina. McEwen’s goal is to create a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas.

 

McEwen has approximately 400.3
million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 20% of the shares.

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.
 Page
 1
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

 

This
news release and the related prospectuses and documents incorporated by reference therein contain certain forward-looking statements
and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, the Company's estimates,
forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are
necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject
to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such
statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from
those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ
materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not
limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic,
social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely
manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations
and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets,
environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. The Company’s
dividend policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board of Directors and is subject to change based on certain factors such
as the capital needs of the Company and its future operating results. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof, or included in the related prospectuses and
documents incorporated by reference therein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue
or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may
be required by law. See the prospectuses and documents incorporated by reference therein, including in the McEwen Mining's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, as amended, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors
relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information
made in this news release and the related prospectuses and documents incorporated by reference therein are qualified by this cautionary
statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept
responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen
Mining Inc.

 

CONTACT INFORMATION:
 
 Investor Relations: (866)-441-0690
Toll Free 
(647)-258-0395 
 
 Christina McCarthy ext. 390
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com 
 
 
 
 150 King Street West Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24 Toronto, ON, Canada M5H 1J9

 

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.
 Page
 2