EX-99.1
4
tm2211626d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

McEwen Mining
Amends Term Loan Facility and Raises Additional 
$15 Million from Rob McEwen

 

TORONTO,
April 5, 2022 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX)(“McEwen” or the “Company”) is pleased
to announce that it has amended its $50 million senior secured term loan facility (the “Term Loan”) to gain financial flexibility
and entered into a new $15 million unsecured subordinated promissory note (the “Promissory Note”).

 

“Reduced
cash flow from operations in Q1 has placed McEwen Mining in a challenging position which we needed to overcome. I have invested a further
$15 million by way of an unsecured Promissory Note so that we can implement corrective action. It was also beneficial to extend the maturity
of our Term Loan to enable us to invest in production growth and mine life extensions before debt retirement. Results from operations
are expected to improve starting with the current quarter and resume the positive trend we experienced during 2021. Gold Bar achieved
our production target in Q1 and Los Azules has made some important advances,” said Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief
Owner. “The deviation from our financial forecast for Q1 was caused by lower production at the Fox Complex and at San José.
Loss of manpower due to COVID-19 was a significant factor at both mines. Very cold weather and equipment failures also occurred at the
Fox mill.”

 

The maturity of the Term Loan was extended
to March 31, 2025, the amortization period and certain covenants were also amended, and any security interest over McEwen Copper
Inc. and the Los Azules copper project was removed. The principal amount of the loan and reference rate remain unchanged. The amendment
will eliminate the need to repay $10 million of principal in 2022 and $40 million in 2023 and allow McEwen Copper to raise additional
financing as well as pursue its IPO.

 

In consideration for the extension
of the Term Loan and other amendments, Sprott Private Resource Lending II (Collector), LP will be paid bonus interest in the form of 588,235
restricted common shares of the Company. Evanachan Limited, an entity wholly-owned by Rob McEwen, and a lender of half the principal outstanding
under the Term Loan, has waived any right to receive bonus interest.

 

In addition, the Company has entered
into a $15 million Promissory Note with Evanachan Limited maturing on September 30, 2025, and bearing interest of 8% payable monthly
in arrears. The Promissory Note will be used for working capital purposes and can be repaid by the Company at any time without penalty.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

 

This
news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date
of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to
future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions
that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties,
risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual
results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that
could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements
and information include, but are not limited to, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals,
mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation
to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the
construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state
of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to the calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other
risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the
date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information
or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2021, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors",
for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding
the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed
and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by the management
of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified gold
and silver producer and explorer focused in the Americas with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, and Argentina. It also has a large exposure
to copper through its subsidiary McEwen Copper, owner of the Los Azules copper deposit in Argentina.

 

 
 CONTACT INFORMATION:
 
 
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll-Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter: twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9