EX-99.1
2
tm2012882d4_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

McEwen
Mining Provides Operations Update and Withdraws Production Guidance Due to COVID-19 Pandemic

 

TORONTO, March 20, 2020 -
McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) reports on the current impacts of COVID-19 on our operations.

 

·The government of Argentina has declared
a state of emergency and imposed a nationwide mandatory quarantine starting today to reduce the spread of COVID-19. As a result,
our 49%-owned San José mine has temporarily halted operations effective today, through at least March 31, 2020. The mine
site will continue to be staffed by a reduced workforce to ensure appropriate safety, security, and environmental systems are maintained.

 

·Work at the Los Azules copper project
in Argentina is also suspended until further notice.

 

·With the confirmed presence of COVID-19
in the Timmins region, our Black Fox operation is implementing numerous safety measures in addition to very strict site access
and employee screening measures already in place: all non-essential staff and second-in-command managers will be working from home,
employees who must travel by plane or for more than 4 hours have been asked not to return to the site, payroll will be isolated
off site, group meetings have been discontinued, data is being collected on employee family health status, and numerous other measures.

 

·As a consequence of the suspension of
mining at San José and uncertainty related to the potential impact of COVID-19 on our other operations, we are withdrawing
all previously announced production and costs guidance for 2020.

 

McEwen Mining’s mines in
Ontario, Nevada, and Mexico are currently continuing to operate. The measures being taken to combat COVID-19 by the Company and
local authorities in each of the jurisdictions where we operate are changing rapidly. We are closely monitoring the situation at
our mine sites and in the local communities. McEwen Mining Inc. will be following the guidelines and directions set out by the
local public health authorities.

 

Reliability of Information
Regarding San José

Minera Santa Cruz S.A. (MSC),
the owner of the San José Mine, is responsible for and has supplied to the Company all reported results from the San José
Mine. McEwen Mining’s joint venture partner, a subsidiary of Hochschild Mining plc, and its affiliates other than MSC do
not accept responsibility for the use of project data or the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

This
news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed,
as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations
or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates
and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive
uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate.
Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied
by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the
market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign
operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection
with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs
thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation
of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information
included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking
statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See
McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 and other filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors
relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information
made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept
responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen
Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

McEwen Mining is a diversified
gold and silver producer and explorer with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also owns a large copper
deposit in Argentina. McEwen’s goal is to create a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas.

 

McEwen Mining has approximately
400 million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 20% of the shares.

 

 CONTACT INFORMATION:

 

 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter: twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9
 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2