EX-99.1
2
tm2225256d2_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

McEwen Copper Options Elder Creek Project to
Rio Tinto

 

TORONTO, Sep 6,
2022 - McEwen Copper Inc., a subsidiary of McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX), is pleased to announce that
it has entered into a binding term sheet with Kennecott Exploration Company (“KEX”), a subsidiary of Rio Tinto,
for an option to earn a 60% interest in and joint venture the Elder Creek property in Nevada (see Figure 1) by spending
US$18 million.

 

The principal terms of the agreement are:

 

·KEX will have the right to earn a 60% interest
in Elder Creek by investing $18 million over a maximum of seven years (the “Expenditure Commitment”).

 

·KEX will be the operator of the Elder Creek
project during the term of the agreement.

 

·Following completion of the Expenditure Commitment,
KEX and McEwen Copper will form an unincorporated 60:40 joint venture.

 

·Other customary representations, warranties and
conditions.

 

Figure 1 – Elder
Creek property location map

 

 

 

About McEwen Copper

 

McEwen Copper Inc. holds 100% interest in the
Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina and the Elder Creek project in Nevada, USA. McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE/TSX: MUX) owns a
68% share of McEwen Copper.

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

About Elder Creek

 

This Project consists of 577 unpatented mining
claims in Humboldt and Lander counties, Nevada. It is prospective for porphyry copper mineralization and well placed in a district hosting
several large copper and gold mines, including Marigold, Lone Tree and Phoenix. McEwen Mining Inc. holds a 1.25% net smelter return (NSR)
royalty on all the claims that comprise the Elder Creek property.

 

About Rio Tinto

 

Rio Tinto
is the second largest mining and metals company in the world, operating in 35 countries, and producing the raw materials essential to
human progress. It aims to help pioneer a more sustainable future, from partnering in the development of technology that can make the
aluminum smelting process entirely free of direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, to providing the world with the materials it needs
 – such as copper – to build a new low-carbon economy and products like electric vehicles, charging infrastructure and smartphones.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news release contains certain forward-looking
statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the
 "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements
and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are
inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance
that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from
those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially
from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and
security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or
other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of
production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards,
uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or
update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required
by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 and other filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties
and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and
information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not
accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen
Mining Inc.

 

 
 WEBSITE
 www.mcewenmining.com
 
 CONTACT INFORMATION
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll-Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu
 ext. 320
 info@mcewenmining.com 
 SOCIAL
 MEDIA 
 
 
 
 McEwen
 Mining 
 
 Facebook: 
 facebook.com/mcewenmining 
 
 LinkedIn: 
 linkedin.com/company/mcewen-mining-inc- 
 
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/mcewenmining 
 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mcewenmining 
 
 
 
 McEwen Copper 
 
 Facebook: 
 facebook.com/mcewencopper 
 
 LinkedIn: 
 linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper 
 
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/mcewencopper 
 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mcewencopper 
 
 
 
 Rob McEwen 
 
 Facebook: 
 facebook.com/mcewenrob 
 
 LinkedIn: 
 linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24 
 
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/robmcewenmux 
 
 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2