EX-99.1
3
tm2332981d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

McEwen
Mining Closes Flow-Through Financing

 

TORONTO, December 14,
2023 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is pleased to announce the closing of the previously announced private placement
financing of 1,903,000 flow-through common shares for total gross proceeds of US$16.1 million (Cdn$22,016,150).

 

The proceeds of this financing will be used exclusively
for qualifying Canadian Exploration Expenditures (CEE) and Canadian Development Expenditures (CDE), within
the meaning of subsection 66(15) of the Income Tax Act (Canada), on McEwen Mining’s properties in the Timmins region:

 

Part 1 (CEE) of the financing consists of
a US$7.3 million (Cdn$10,007,600) private placement of 788,000 flow-through common shares at a price of US$9.27 (Cdn$12.70); and

 

Part 2 (CDE) of the financing consists of
a US$8.8 million (Cdn$12,008,550) private placement of 1,115,000 flow-through common shares at a price of US$7.86 (Cdn$10.77), (Part 1
and Part 2 together being the “Offering”).

 

Cantor Fitzgerald Canada Corporation and Roth
Capital Partners, LLC are acting as exclusive co-lead placement agents for the Offering and PearTree Canada structured the flow-through
donation placement.

 

This press release is not an offer of common shares
for sale in the United States. The common shares may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an available exemption
from the registration requirements of the US. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "U.S. Securities Act"), and applicable
U.S. state securities laws. McEwen will not make any public offering of the securities in the United States. The common shares have not
been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act, or any state securities laws.

 

This press release shall not constitute an
offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities, in any jurisdiction in which such
offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news
release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of
this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future
events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that,
while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks
and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results
and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could
cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements
and information include, but are not limited to, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals,
mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation
to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the
construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state
of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to the calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other
risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the
date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information
or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2022 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors",
for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding
the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility
for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen
Mining is a gold and silver producer with operations in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. In addition, it owns approximately 47.7%
of McEwen Copper which owns the large, advanced stage Los Azules copper project in Argentina. The Company’s
goal is to improve the productivity and life of its assets with the objective of increasing its share price and providing a yield. Rob
McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner has personally provided the Company with $220 million and takes an annual salary of $1.

 

 
 
 WEB SITE
 SOCIAL MEDIA 
 
 
 
 www.mcewenmining.com
 
 McEwen Mining
 
 
 
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 CONTACT INFORMATION
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewen-mining-inc-
 
 
 
 Twitter:
 twitter.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 150 King Street West 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 Suite 2800, PO Box
 24 
 
 
 
 
 Toronto, ON, Canada 
 
 McEwen Copper
 
 
 M5H 1J9
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/ mcewencopper
 
 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper
 
 
 Relationship with Investors: 
 Twitter:
 twitter.com/mcewencopper
 
 
 (866)-441-0690 Toll free 
 Instagram: 
 instagram.com/mcewencopper
 
 
 (647)-258-0395
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rob McEwen 
 
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320 
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24
 
 
 
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2