EX-99.1
5
ny20029030x6_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Exhibt 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 McEwen Mining Announces Closing of Flow-Through Financing
 
 
 
 
 
 TORONTO, June 14, 2024 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX)
 (TSX: MUX) (“McEwen”) is pleased to report it has closed the previously announced public financing for US$22.0 million (Cdn$30.0 million)
 to fund ongoing exploration and development at the Fox Complex in the Timmins region of Ontario, primarily focused on exploration drilling and the development of an underground access ramp from surface to mine the gold resources of Stock East and
 West. This represents the next area of production growth at the Fox Complex.
 
 
 The proceeds of this financing will be used exclusively for qualifying Canadian Exploration Expenses (within the meaning of subsection 66.1(6) of the
 Income Tax Act (Canada)) (“CEE”) and Canadian Development Expenses (within the meaning of subsection 66.2(5) of the Income Tax Act (Canada)) (“CDE”), including:
 
 
 Part 1 (CEE) of the financing consists of a US$10.0
 million (Cdn$13,650,890) offering of 643,000 flow-through common shares at a price of US$15.56 (Cdn$21.23); and
 
 
 Part 2 (CDE) of the financing consists of a US$12.0
 million (Cdn$16,384,900) offering of 890,000 flow-through common shares at a price of US$13.49 (Cdn$18.41),
 
 
 (Part 1 (CEE) and Part 2 (CDE) together being the “Offering”).
 
 
 The Offering consisted of 1,533,000 flow-through common shares at a blended average price of $14.36 (Cdn$19.59), a 19% premium to the closing price on May
 27th, for aggregate gross proceeds of US$22.0 million (Cdn$30.0 million). Total proceeds from the Offering net of placement agents’ fees
 was approximately US$20.8 million (Cdn$28.5 million).
 
 
 Cantor Fitzgerald Canada Corporation and Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. led a syndicate of placement agents for the Offering, which included Roth Capital
 Partners, LLC, A.G.P./Alliance Global Partners, and H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC. PearTree Securities Inc. structured the flow-through donation placement.
 
 
 The Offering was made pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3
 (File No. 333- 275324) that was previously filed by McEwen in the United States and subsequently declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on January 2, 2024 and also pursuant to a preliminary and final
 multi-jurisdictional disclosure system prospectus (the “Canadian Base Shelf”) in Canada. McEwen filed a final prospectus supplement with the SEC in connection with the Offering and a Canadian final prospectus supplement to the Canadian Base Shelf
 under the “northbound” multi-jurisdictional disclosure system with securities regulatory authorities in some of the provinces of Canada other than Quebec (collectively, the “Prospectus Supplement”). The Offering was made only by means of a
 prospectus, including a prospectus supplement, forming a part of the effective registration statement. The Base Shelf Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement are filed with the SEC and available on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov or by visiting the SEDAR+ website at www.sedarplus.com.
 
 
 This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities described herein,
 nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such state or jurisdiction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
 
 This news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information,
 including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the
 “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results, including but not limited to the expected use of proceeds of the Offering and the timing of the closing of the Offering. Forward-looking statements
 and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and
 there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that
 could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market
 price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in
 connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards,
 uncertainty as to the calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes
 no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
 December 31, 2023 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information
 regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
 
 The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been
 prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 
 
 ABOUT MCEWEN MINING
 
 
 McEwen Mining is a gold and silver producer with operations in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. In addition, it owns approximately 47.7% of McEwen
 Copper which owns the large, advanced stage Los Azules copper project in Argentina. The Company’s goal is to improve the productivity and life of its assets with the objective of increasing its share price and providing a yield. Rob McEwen, Chairman
 and Chief Owner has personally provided the Company with $220 million and takes an annual salary of $1.
 
 
 CONTACT INFORMATION
 
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, PO Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9
 
 
 Relationship with Investors:
 
 
 (866)-441-0690 Toll free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 
 info@mcewenmining.com