EX-99.1
2
tm2115070d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

MCEWEN MINING: Q1 2021 Results Webcast 

 

TORONTO, May 3, 2021 - McEwen Mining
Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) invites you to join our conference call on Monday, May 10th, 2021, from 11:00 am EDT, where
management will discuss our Q1 2021 financial results and project developments and follow with a question-and-answer session.
Questions can be asked directly by participants over the phone during the webcast.

 

The
webcast will be archived on McEwen Mining’s website at https://www.mcewenmining.com/media following
the call.

 

 
 Monday, May 10th, 2021

at 11:00 am EDT

 
 
 To call into the conference call over the phone, please register
 here: 
 http://www.directeventreg.com/registration/event/2562066
 
 Audience URL:
 https://event.on24.com/wcc/r/3082266/913742C4F6945BAA9039EE61980F124A
 
 
 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a
diversified gold and silver producer and explorer focused in the Americas with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina.
It also owns a large copper deposit in Argentina.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

 

This
news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date
of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to
future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions
that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties,
risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual
results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that
could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements
and information include, but are not limited to, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals,
mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation
to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the
construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state
of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks.
Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date
hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information
or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2020 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional
information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company.
All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed
and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management
of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

 

CONTACT INFORMATION:

 

 
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 Join our email list for updates: www.mcewenmining.com/contact-us/#section=followUs
 
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter: 
 twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON
 Canada
 M5H 1J9
 
 

 

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2