EX-99.1
2
tm2613623d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

McEwen Inc. and Golden
Lake Exploration Inc. Announce Closing of Arrangement

 

Toronto, Ontario and Vancouver, British Columbia
– April 30, 2026 – McEwen Inc. (“McEwen”) (NYSE/TSX:MUX) and Golden Lake Exploration Inc. (“Golden
Lake”) (CSE: GLM) (OTCQB: GOLXF) are pleased to announce the completion of the previously announced business combination between
McEwen and Golden Lake by way of statutory plan of arrangement (the “Arrangement”).

 

Golden Lake’s principal asset is its Jewel
Ridge and Jewel Ridge West projects located adjacent to McEwen’s Windfall and Lookout Mountain discoveries, part of the Gold Bar
Mine Complex, in the Eureka Mining District of Nevada. Historical drill highlights from Jewel Ridge project include 2.20 gpt gold over
28.96 meters, 1.24 gpt gold over 56.39 meters, 2.37 gpt gold over 67.57 meters. These holes
are located north of McEwen’s Windfall deposit, where a recent drill hole returned 5.55 gpt gold over 44.2 meters.
Incorporating Golden Lake’s projects into the Gold Bar Mine Complex will help continue the mine’s transformation into a long-life
operation by investing in exploration and leveraging the current McEwen infrastructure.

 

Under the terms of the Arrangement, each holder
of common shares of Golden Lake (each, a "Golden Lake Share") received 0.003876 McEwen common shares (each, a "McEwen
Share") for each Golden Lake Share held (the "Exchange Ratio"). In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Arrangement,
all outstanding common share purchase warrants of Golden Lake (the "Golden Lake Warrants") were cashlessly exercised
and cancelled in exchange for Golden Lake Shares having a value equal to their in-the-money amount, and all outstanding convertible notes
of Golden Lake (the "Golden Lake Notes") were converted into Golden Lake Shares based on principal and accrued interest
in accordance with their terms.

 

All issued and outstanding Golden Lake Shares
(including the Golden Lake Shares issued to holders of Golden Lake Warrants and holders of Golden Lake Notes) were exchanged for McEwen
Shares on the basis of the Exchange Ratio. Outstanding stock options of Golden Lake were exchanged for replacement options of McEwen on
an equivalent economic basis, with adjusted exercise prices, exercisable within 90 days following the closing of the Arrangement, in accordance
with the terms of Golden Lake's stock option plan.

 

The shares of Golden Lake are expected to be delisted
from the Canadian Securities Exchange (the "CSE") effective as of the close of market on April 30, 2026. Golden
Lake will submit an application to cease to be a reporting issuer under applicable Canadian securities laws and to otherwise terminate
its public reporting requirements.

 

Information for Golden Lake Shareholders

 

Certificates formerly representing Golden Lake
Shares now represent only the right to receive McEwen Shares to which the holders are entitled pursuant to the Arrangement.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

In order to receive their McEwen Shares, registered
shareholders of Golden Lake must deposit their share certificates or DRS advice(s) with a completed Letter of Transmittal, as set
forth in the information circular of Golden Lake dated February 10, 2026. The Letter of Transmittal was mailed to registered shareholders
together with the meeting materials for the Golden Lake meeting and it is also available on Golden Lake's SEDAR+ profile on www.sedarplus.ca.

 

Golden Lake shareholders who own their shares
through a broker or other intermediary should contact such broker or other intermediary regarding their receipt of McEwen Shares under
the Arrangement. Further information regarding the Arrangement, including instructions on how to exchange Golden Lake Shares for McEwen
Shares, is set out in the management information circular of Golden Lake dated February 10, 2026, a copy of which is available on
the profile of Golden Lake on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca.

 

About Golden Lake

 

Golden Lake Exploration is a junior public mining
exploration company engaged in the business of mineral exploration and the acquisition of mineral property assets.

 

About McEwen

 

McEwen shares
trade on both the NYSE and TSX under the ticker MUX.

 

McEwen provides
its shareholders with exposure to a growing base of gold and silver production in addition to a very large copper
development project, all in the Americas. The gold and silver mines are in prolific mineral-rich regions of the world, the Cortez Trend
in Nevada, USA, the Timmins district of Ontario, Flin Flon in Manitoba and the Deseado Massif in Santa Cruz province, Argentina. McEwen
is also reactivating its gold-silver El Gallo Mine in Mexico.

 

The Company
has a 46.3% interest in McEwen Copper, which owns the large, long-life, advanced-stage Los Azules copper development project in
San Juan province, Argentina – a region that hosts some of the country’s largest copper deposits. According to the last
financing for McEwen Copper, the implied value of McEwen’s ownership interest is US$456 million.

 

The Los
Azules copper project is designed to be one of the world’s first regenerative copper mines and carbon neutral by 2038. Its
Feasibility Study results were announced in the press release dated October 7, 2025.

 

McEwen also
recently purchased 27.3% of Paragon Advanced Labs Inc., a newly listed public company that is deploying PhotonAssay™ units
around the world, a technology that the Company believes is poised to become the new industry standard for assaying precious and base
metals, with Paragon aiming to be one of the leading service providers.

 

Chairman
and Chief Owner Rob McEwen has invested over US$250 million personally and takes a salary of $1 per year, aligning
his interests with shareholders. He is a recipient of the Order of Canada, a member of the Canadian Mining Hall of Fame and a winner of
the EY Entrepreneur of the Year (Energy) award. His objective is to build MUX’s profitability, share value and eventually implement
a dividend policy, as he did while building Goldcorp Inc.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 2 
 
 

 

 

McEwen Contact Info and Social Media

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WEB
 SITE 
 
 SOCIAL
 MEDIA
 
 
 
 www.mcewenmining.com
 
 
 McEwen
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mceweninc
 
 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mceweninc
 
 
 CONTACT
 INFORMATION
 
 X:
 X.com/mceweninc
 
 150
 King Street West 
 
 Instagram:
 
 instagram.com/mceweninc
 
 Suite 2800,
 PO Box 24 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toronto,
 ON, Canada 
 
 McEwen
 Copper
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/
 mcewencopper
 
 M5H
 1J9 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 X:
 X.com/mcewencopper
 
 Relationship
 with Investors: 
 
 Instagram:
 
 instagram.com/mcewencopper
 
 (866)-441-0690
 - Toll free 
 
 
 
 
 
 (647)-258-0395
 
 
 Rob
 McEwen
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Mihaela
 Iancu ext. 2006 
 
 LinkedIn:
 https://www.linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 X:
 
 X.com/robmcewenmux
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Neither the NYSE, TSX or CSE have reviewed and do not accept
responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by the management of McEwen
and Golden Lake.

 

Forward-Looking Statements

 

This news release contains "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. All statements, other than statements of historical
fact, are forward-looking statements and are based on expectations, estimates and projections as at the date of this news release. Any
statement that involves discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions, future
events or performance (often but not always using phrases such as "expects", or "does not expect", "is expected",
"anticipates" or "does not anticipate", "plans", "budget", "scheduled", "forecasts",
"estimates", "believes" or "intends" or variations of such words and phrases or stating that certain actions,
events or results "may" or "could", "would", "might" or "will" be taken to occur or
be achieved) are not statements of historical fact and may be forward-looking statements.

 

In this news release, forward-looking statements
relate to, among other things, statements regarding: the timing of delisting of shares of Golden Lake from the CSE, Golden Lake ceasing
to be a reporting issuer, goals to have Los Azules copper become one of the world's first regenerative copper mines and achieve carbon
neutrality by 2038, and the objectives for McEwen. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and involve risks
and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
See McEwen Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025, and other filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors
relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding McEwen.

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 3 
 
 

 

 

McEwen and Golden Lake expressly disclaim any
intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise
except as otherwise required by applicable securities legislation.

 

Qualified Person

 

Technical information pertaining to the Gold Bar
Complex exploration contained in this press release has been prepared under the supervision of Robert Kastelic, MSc, CPG, Exploration
Manager for McEwen Inc. in Nevada, and Luke Willis, P.Geo, Director of Resource Modelling for McEwen Inc., who are Qualified Persons
(QPs) as defined by SEC S-K 1300 and Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument 43-101 "Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects”. Technical information disclosed in this news release pertaining to the historic Jewel Ridge drilling was reviewed and
approved by Don Hoy, P. Geo., who serves as a Qualified Person as defined under National Instrument 43-101 for Golden Lake Exploration
Inc.

 

Historical References for Exploration Drilling
at Jewel Ridge

 

·Golden
 Lake press release of March 23, 2022

 

·Golden
 Lake corporate website

 

Continued..

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 4 
 
 

 

 

Figure 1. McEwen and Golden
Lake Property Locations, Eureka Nevada

 

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 5