EX-99.1
2
a19-12427_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
Conclusion of Gold Bar Mine Accident Investigation
 
TORONTO, July 2, 2019 - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) reports that the formal investigation into the previously announced death of a contractor’s employee at the Gold Bar Mine on May 13th, 2019 is complete.
 
The Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) is the regulatory body of the United States Department of Labor that leads this type of investigation into accidents at mine properties. Based on all of the evidence they obtained from their thorough investigation, including an autopsy report, MSHA has determined that the death was from natural causes, and therefore, it was not mining related.
 
McEwen Mining wishes to extend our deepest sympathies to everyone impacted by this unfortunate event.
 
ABOUT MCEWEN MINING
 
McEwen Mining is a diversified gold and silver producer with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also owns a large copper deposit in Argentina. McEwen’s goal is to qualify for inclusion in the S&P 500 Index by creating a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas.
 
McEwen has approximately 362 million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 22% of the shares.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks,
 

 
McEwen Mining Inc.
 

 

 
uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 

CONTACT INFORMATION: 

 

 

 

 

 

Mihaela Iancu 

Website: www.mcewenmining.com 

150 King Street West 

Investor Relations 

 

Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24 

(647)-258-0395 ext 320 

Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob 

Toronto, ON, Canada 

info@mcewenmining.com 

 

M5H 1J9 

 

Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining 

(866)-441-0690 

 

 

 

 

Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining 

 
 
2