EX-99.1
2
a13-20019_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
MCEWEN MINING FILES NI 43-101 TECHNICAL REPORT ON EL GALLO COMPLEX
 
TORONTO, ONTARIO - (August 30, 2013) - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) announces that the technical report titled “Resource Estimate for the El Gallo Complex, Sinaloa State, Mexico” dated June 30, 2013 has been filed under the company’s profile on SEDAR (www.sedar.com) pursuant to the requirements of Canadian National Instrument 43-101 and is also available on the company’s website — www.mcewenmining.com. The technical report, prepared by John Read, CPG, McEwen Mining’s Senior Consultant, and Luke Willis, P.Geo, McEwen Mining’s Director, Resource Modeling, includes the updated resource estimates previously announced by the company in a press release dated July 17, 2013 and August 7, 2013. Mr. Read and Mr. Willis are both Qualified Persons as defined in Canadian National Instrument 43-101 and have reviewed and approved the contents of this news release.
 
About McEwen Mining (www.mcewenmining.com)
 
The goal of McEwen Mining is to qualify for inclusion in the S&P 500 by creating a high growth, profitable, gold producer focused in the Americas. McEwen Mining’s principal assets consist of the San José mine in Santa Cruz, Argentina (49% interest); the El Gallo 1 mine and El Gallo 2 project in Sinaloa, Mexico; the Gold Bar project in Nevada, US; the Los Azules project in San Juan, Argentina and a large portfolio of exploration properties in Argentina, Mexico and Nevada.
 
McEwen Mining has 297,114,359 shares issued and outstanding at August 6, 2013. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 25% of the shares of the Company.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release and documents referenced herein contain certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to accuracy of exploration results, calculation of mineral resources and reserves and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new
 

 
1

 

 
information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 

For further information contact: 

 

 

 

 

 

Sheena Scotland
Investor Relations
Tel: (647) 258-0395 ext 410
Toll Free: (866) 441-0690
Fax: (647) 258-0408
 
Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining 

 

Mailing Address
181 Bay Street Suite 4750
Toronto, ON M5J 2T3
PO box 792
E-mail: info@mcewenmining.com 
 
2