EX-99.1
2
tm2038123d2_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1 

 

 

 

MCEWEN MINING ANNOUNCES FLOW-THROUGH
FINANCING

 

TORONTO, December 17, 2020
- McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is pleased to announce a strategic financing (the “Offering”)
to further our successful exploration program at our properties in the Timmins region of Ontario.

 

The Company intends to issue
6,136,000 common shares (CDN$10,001,680) of the Corporation issued on a flow-through basis (the “FT Shares”)
at a price per share of CDN $1.63, with an option to increase the Offering by 920,400 FT Shares (CDN$1,500,252) exercisable at
any time up to two business days prior to the closing of the Offering by way of a non-brokered private placement. The Offering
Price represents a premium of 22% over the closing price of McEwen Mining common shares on the TSX as of December 16, 2020.

 

The gross proceeds from the sale
of FT Shares will be used for expenditures which qualify as Canadian Exploration Expenses (CEE) within the meaning of the Income
Tax Act (Canada). The Company will renounce such CEE expenditures with an effective date of no later than December 31, 2020.

 

The Common Shares issued will
be subject to a four month hold period. The Offering is expected to close on or before December 30, 2020 and is subject to customary
closing conditions, including approval from the TSX and NYSE.

 

This press release is not an
offer of common shares for sale in the United States. The common shares may not be offered or sold in the United States absent
registration or an available exemption from the registration requirements of the US. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "U.S.
Securities Act") and applicable U.S. state securities laws. McEwen will not make any public offering of the securities in
the United States. The common shares have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act, or any state securities
laws. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale
of these securities, in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

This news release contains
certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this
news release, contain McEwen Mining Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs
as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and
assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive
uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate.
Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information.
Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied
by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic,
social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely
manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations
and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets,
environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should
not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof.
The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information
or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2019 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors",
for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information
regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary
statement.

 

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc. personl Page
 1 
 
 

 

 

 

The NYSE and TSX have
not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been
prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified
gold and silver producer and explorer with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also owns a large copper
deposit in Argentina. McEwen Mining’s goal is to create a profitable gold and silver producer focused in the Americas.

 

McEwen Mining has approximately
409 million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 20% of the shares.

 

 CONTACT INFORMATION:

 
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter: twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9
 

 

 

 

 McEwen Mining Inc. Page 2