EX-99.1
2
a15-8794_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
MCEWEN MINING REPORTS ARMED ROBBERY AT EL GALLO 1 MINE
 
TORONTO, ONTARIO - (April 7, 2015) - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is extremely disappointed to report an armed robbery occurred today at our El Gallo 1 mine in Sinaloa, Mexico. An estimated 900 kilograms of gold-bearing concentrate containing approximately 7,000 ounces of gold were stolen from the refinery. The crime is being vigorously investigated by the Mexican authorities.
 
The Company maintains insurance against these types of incidents and is working closely with its insurance carrier to determine the extent of available coverage. However, the Company’s policy will not be sufficient to cover the entire expected loss.
 
No employees were seriously injured and there was no material damage to any of the Company’s facilities. Mining and processing activities have not been impacted and continue uninterrupted.
 
About McEwen Mining (www.mcewenmining.com)
 
The goal of McEwen Mining is to qualify for inclusion in the S&P 500 by creating a profitable gold producer focused in the Americas. McEwen Mining’s principal assets consist of the gold/silver San José mine in Santa Cruz, Argentina (49% interest); the El Gallo complex in Sinaloa, Mexico; the Gold Bar project in Nevada, US; and the Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina. McEwen Mining has 306 million shares fully diluted at April 7, 2015. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 25% of the shares of the Company.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, existing insurance coverage and future availability of insurance, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves and other mining risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

McEwen Mining Inc. — April 7, 2015 

Page 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 

Craig Stanley
Vice President - Corporate Development
Tel: (647) 258-0395 ext 410
Toll Free: (866) 441-0690
Fax: (647) 258-0408
 
Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining 

Mailing Address
150 King Street West
Suite 2800,P.O. Box 24
Toronto, Ontario, Canada
M5H 1J9
E-mail: info@mcewenmining.com 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

McEwen Mining Inc. — April 7, 2015 

Page 2