EX-99.1
2
tm2616605d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

MCEWEN TO HOST LIVE BULLPEN Q&A 

MODERATED BY ANTHONY VACCARO OF THE NORTHERN
MINER GROUP

AT THE 2026 ANNUAL MEETING

 

TORONTO, June 1, 2026 - McEwen Inc. (NYSE/TSX:
MUX) (“McEwen” or the “Company”) invites shareholders and interested stakeholders to attend its 2026 Annual
Meeting on Thursday, June 4, 2026, at 4:30 p.m. EDT, in Toronto and online via live webcast. The meeting will be followed by a live
Bullpen Q&A session.

 

Thursday, June 4, 2026

 

4:30 p.m. EDT

 

Vantage Venues, 27th Floor

 

150 King Street West

 

Toronto, ON M5H 1J9, Canada

 

Bullpen Q&A

 

Following the formal part of the Annual Meeting,
shareholders and guests are invited to join a Bullpen Q&A moderated by Anthony Vaccaro, President of The Northern Miner Group,
featuring members of our leadership: Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner; Ian Ball, Vice-Chairman; and Michael Meding,
Managing Director of McEwen Copper.

 

Designed as an open and engaging forum, the Bullpen
Q&A will move beyond the traditional Annual Meeting format into a candid, in-depth conversation on the Company’s business,
outlook and strategy. Expected topics include operational performance, growth plans, capital allocation, strategic considerations for
McEwen Copper and Los Azules, key opportunities and challenges facing the business, the outlook for gold and copper markets, and questions
submitted by investors.

 

Submit Questions in Advance

 

Shareholders may submit
questions in advance for consideration during the live webcast. Questions may be submitted through the webcast registration link or by
emailing info@mcewenmining.com. Participants may also submit questions throughout the webcast
by using the Q&A icon in the webcast interface.

 

Attend

 

The Annual Meeting
and Bullpen Q&A will be held in person and simultaneously broadcast via live webcast. Guests planning to attend in person are encouraged
to RSVP at info@mcewenmining.com.

 

To
register for the live webcast, please visit: https://vantagevenues.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_voXdh5dbRSKwcaMLWmV2Yg#/registration.

 

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

 

How to Vote Your Shares

 

 

Additional information
regarding the Annual Meeting, including the Company’s 2026 proxy materials, is available at www.mcewenmining.com
and under McEwen Inc.’s profile on SEDAR+ and EDGAR.

 

Shareholders of record as of April 20, 2026, are
encouraged to vote their shares in advance of the Annual Meeting. To vote your shares, please follow the instructions mailed with your
proxy materials. If you require assistance voting, please contact Investor Relations (contact information at the end of this press release).

 

ABOUT ANTHONY VACCARO

 

As President of The
Northern Miner Group, Anthony Vaccaro has overall responsibility for some of the mining industry’s leading media, data and talent
solution brands, including The Northern Miner, MINING.com and
Canadian Mining Journal. He has also been instrumental in launching and promoting The Great
Canadian Treasure Hunt, a nationwide initiative created by The Northern Miner Group to reconnect Canadians
with the importance and rich history of the mining industry. Mr. Vaccaro holds the CFA designation, has an MBA in Investment Management
and serves on the Board of The Canadian Mining Hall of Fame. 

 

ABOUT MCEWEN

 

McEwen shares trade on both the NYSE and TSX under
the ticker MUX.

 

McEwen provides its shareholders with exposure
to a growing base of gold and silver production in addition to a very large copper development
project with exciting optionality, all in the Americas. The gold and silver mines are in prolific mineral-rich regions of the world: the
Cortez Trend in Nevada, USA, the Timmins district of Ontario and Flin Flon in Manitoba, Canada, and the Deseado Massif in Santa Cruz
province, Argentina. McEwen is also reactivating its gold and silver El Gallo Mine in Mexico.

 

The Company has a 46.3% interest in McEwen Copper,
which owns the large, long-life, advanced-stage Los Azules copper development project in San Juan province, Argentina
– a region that hosts some of the country’s largest copper deposits. According to the last financing for McEwen Copper, the
implied value of McEwen’s ownership interest is US$457 million.

 

The Los Azules copper project is designed to
be one of the world’s first regenerative copper mines and carbon neutral by 2038. Its Feasibility Study results
were announced in the press release dated October 7, 2025.

 

McEwen also recently purchased 27.3% of Paragon
Advanced Labs Inc., a newly listed public company that is deploying PhotonAssay™ units around the world, a technology that the
Company believes is poised to become the new industry standard for assaying precious and base metals, with Paragon aiming to be one of
the leading service providers.

 

Chairman and Chief Owner Rob McEwen has
invested US$290 million personally and takes a salary of $1 per year, aligning his interests with shareholders.
He is a recipient of the Order of Canada, a member of the Canadian Mining Hall of Fame and a winner of the EY Entrepreneur of the Year
(Energy) award. His objective is to build MUX’s profitability, share value, and ultimately implement a dividend policy, as he did
while building Goldcorp Inc.

 

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 2 
 
 

 

 

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news release contains
certain forward-looking statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, are as at the date of this news release
and are McEwen Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results.
Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable
by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there
can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could
differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future
events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include,
but are not limited to, fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security
risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the Company to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals
required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and
the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty
as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, foreign exchange volatility, foreign exchange controls, foreign currency risk, and
other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as
of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of
new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2025, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors",
for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding
the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

 
 
 The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not
 accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by the management of
 McEwen.
 
 Want News Fast?
 Subscribe to our
 email list by clicking here:
 https://www.mcewenmining.com/contact-us/#section=followUs 
 
 and receive news as it happens!!
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WEB
 SITE 
 
 SOCIAL
 MEDIA
 
 
 
 
 
 www.mcewenmining.com
 
 McEwen
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mceweninc
 
 
 
 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mceweninc
 
 
 
 
 CONTACT
 INFORMATION
 
 X:
 X.com/mceweninc
 
 
 
 150
 King Street West 
 
 Instagram:
 
 instagram.com/mceweninc
 
 
 
 Suite
 2800, PO Box 24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toronto,
 ON, Canada 
 
 McEwen
 Copper
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/
 mcewencopper
 
 
 
 M5H
 1J9 
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/company/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 
 
 X:
 X.com/mcewencopper
 
 
 
 Investor
 Relations: 
 
 Instagram:
 
 instagram.com/mcewencopper 
 
 
 
 (866)-441-0690
 - Toll free line
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (647)-258-0395
 
 
 Rob
 McEwen
 Facebook:
 facebook.com/mcewenrob 
 
 
 
 Mihaela
 Iancu ext. 2006
 
 LinkedIn:
 linkedin.com/in/robert-mcewen-646ab24
 
 
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 X:
 
 X.com/robmcewenmux
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 McEwen Inc.Page 3