EX-99.1
2
tm212714d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

MCEWEN MINING ANNOUNCES FLOW-THROUGH
FINANCING

 

TORONTO, January 8, 2021 - McEwen
Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is pleased to announce a financing to fund
development of the Froome deposit, which is expected to reach commercial production in Q4 2021, located at the Fox Complex
in the Timmins region of Ontario.

 

The financing consists of a US$11,821,000
(Cdn$15,000,000) private placement offering (the “Offering”) of 11,628,000 flow-through common shares (within the meaning
of subsection 66(15) of the Income Tax Act (Canada)) priced at US$1.02 (Cdn$1.29) per flow-through common share (the
 “Offering Price”) led by Cantor Fitzgerald Canada Corporation as agent and sole bookrunner. The Offering is expected
to close on or before January 28, 2021 (the “Closing”) and is subject to customary closing conditions, including
approval from the TSX and NYSE.

 

The proceeds of this Offering will be used
exclusively for qualifying Canadian Development Expenditures (CDE) on McEwen’s properties in the Timmins region.

 

This press release is not an offer of common
shares for sale in the United States. The common shares may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or
an available exemption from the registration requirements of the US. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "U.S. Securities
Act") and applicable U.S. state securities laws. McEwen will not make any public offering of the securities in the United
States. The common shares have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act, or any state securities laws.

 

This press release shall not constitute
an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities, in any jurisdiction in
which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS

This news release contains certain forward-looking
statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, McEwen Mining
Inc.'s (the "Company") estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking
statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by
management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and
there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause
results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements
and information include, but are not limited to, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic,
fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated
with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive or receive in a timely manner permits or other approvals required
in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the
projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty
as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, and other risks. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue
or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may
be required by law. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 and other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on
risks, uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking
statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and
do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management
of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1 
 
 

 

 

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified
gold and silver producer and explorer focused in the Americas with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It
also owns a large copper deposit in Argentina.

 

 CONTACT INFORMATION:

 

 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9

 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 2