EX-99.1
2
a16-3416_1ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
McEWEN MINING REGAINS COMPLIANCE WITH
NYSE LISTING STANDARDS
 
TORONTO, ONTARIO - (February 2, 2016) - McEwen Mining Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) is pleased to announce receipt of notification from the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) that it has regained compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards regarding the minimum price of its common stock.
 
Chief Owner, Rob McEwen, stated: “This is wonderful news and it highlights our strong operational performance in 2015, where we increased our gold/silver production, decreased our production cost/oz., generated free cash flow and steadily built our treasury over the year. Also, during the year we declared and paid our first ever semi-annual capital distribution. Our share price appreciation since July, 2015 reflects the value in exercising financial discipline and resisting the temptation to finance at the bottom of the market. We refused to give away our future upside. We have not and will not sell metal streams, sell royalties or hedge our future production. At this time, we are debt free, we have $33 million in cash and bullion. As you can see, we have no pressure on our balance sheet and we will be paying our second capital distribution on February 12th. This is a great way to start 2016”.
 
ABOUT MCEWEN MINING (www.mcewenmining.com)
 
McEwen Mining has an ambitious goal of qualifying for inclusion in the S&P 500 Index by creating a high growth gold and silver producer focused in the Americas. McEwen Mining’s principal assets consist of the San José Mine in Santa Cruz, Argentina (49% interest), the El Gallo Mine and El Gallo Silver project in Sinaloa, Mexico, the Gold Bar project in Nevada, USA, and the Los Azules copper project in San Juan, Argentina.
 
McEwen Mining has a total of 298 million shares outstanding. Rob McEwen, Chairman and Chief Owner, owns 25% of the Company.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements and information, including “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements and information expressed, as at the date of this news release, in McEwen Mining Inc.’s (the “Company”) estimates, forecasts, projections, expectations or beliefs as to future events and results. Forward-looking statements and information are necessarily based upon a number of estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by management, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, risks and contingencies, and there can be no assurance that such statements and information will prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements and information. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results or future events to differ materially from current expectations expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements and information include, but are not limited to, factors associated with fluctuations in the market price of precious metals, mining industry risks, political, economic, social and security risks associated with foreign operations, the ability of the corporation to receive, or receive in a timely manner, permits or other approvals required in connection with operations, risks associated with the construction of mining operations and commencement of production and the projected costs thereof, risks related to litigation, the state of the capital markets, environmental risks and hazards, uncertainty as to calculation of mineral resources and reserves, the risk of delisting from a public exchange and other risks. The Company’s dividend policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board of Directors and is subject to change based on certain factors such as the capital needs of the Company and its future operating results. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information included herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to reissue or update forward-looking statements or information as a result of new information or events after the date hereof except as may be required by law. See McEwen Mining’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption “Risk Factors”, for additional information on risks, uncertainties and other factors relating 
 

 

 

 
to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.
 
The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by management of McEwen Mining Inc.
 

CONTACT INFORMATION: 

 

 

 

 

 

Mihaela Iancu
Investor Relations
(647) 258-0395 ext 320
info@mcewenmining.com
 
Website
mcewenmining.com
 
Facebook
facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
Twitter
twitter.com/mcewenmining 

Christina McCarthy
Director of Corporate Development
(647) 258-0395 ext 390
corporatedevelopment@mcewenmining.com
 
 

150 King Street West
Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
Toronto, Ontario, Canada
M5H 1J9
(866) 441-0690
 
 
 

 
2