EX-99.1
2
tm222247d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

MCEWEN MINING ADDRESSES NYSE LISTING REQUIREMENTS

 

TORONTO, January 6, 2022 - McEwen Mining
Inc. (NYSE: MUX) (TSX: MUX) reports that it has fallen below the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") continued
listing requirement related to the price of its common stock. The NYSE requires that the average closing price of a listed
company's common stock be above US$1.00 per share, calculated over a period of 30 consecutive trading days. The Company was
notified by the NYSE on January 5th, 2022 that the average price of its common stock for the previous
30 trading days was below $1.00 per share.

 

McEwen Mining intends to take steps to regain
compliance with the NYSE continued listing requirements. Under NYSE rules, the Company has a period of six months
to bring its share price and 30-day average closing share price back above $1.00. During this period, the Company’s common
stock will continue to trade on the NYSE, subject to all other continued listing requirements. At the end of the six-month remedy
period, if the share price has not recovered, the Company's stock will be subject to NYSE suspension and delisting procedures.
The Company's listing on the Toronto Stock Exchange ("TSX") is unaffected by any actions of the NYSE.

 

CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This news release contains certain forward-looking
statements and information, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. See McEwen Mining's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 and other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the caption "Risk Factors", for additional information on risks,
uncertainties and other factors relating to the forward-looking statements and information regarding the Company. All forward-looking
statements and information made in this news release are qualified by this cautionary statement.

 

The NYSE and TSX have not reviewed and do
not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the contents of this news release, which has been prepared by the management
of McEwen Mining Inc.

 

ABOUT MCEWEN MINING

 

McEwen Mining is a diversified gold and silver
producer and explorer focused in the Americas with operating mines in Nevada, Canada, Mexico and Argentina. It also has a large exposure
to copper through its subsidiary McEwen Copper, owner of the giant Los Azules copper deposit in Argentina.

 

 
 CONTACT
 INFORMATION:
 
 
 
 
 Investor Relations:
 (866)-441-0690 Toll-Free
 (647)-258-0395
 
 Mihaela Iancu ext. 320
 
 info@mcewenmining.com
 
 
 Website: www.mcewenmining.com
 
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenmining
 Facebook: facebook.com/mcewenrob
 
 Twitter: twitter.com/mcewenmining
 Twitter: twitter.com/robmcewenmux
 
 Instagram: instagram.com/mcewenmining
 
 
 150 King Street West
 Suite 2800, P.O. Box 24
 Toronto, ON, Canada
 M5H 1J9
 
 
 

 McEwen Mining Inc.Page 1