EX-99.1
3
tm2315741d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1 

 

 

Newmont
Enters into Definitive Agreement to Acquire Newcrest

 

Setting
the Standard for Safe, Profitable and Responsible Gold and Copper Production from a World-Class Portfolio of Top-Tier Operations

 

•Newmont
 has agreed to acquire Newcrest by way of an Australian Scheme of Arrangement (“Scheme”),
 under which Newmont will acquire 100 percent of the issued shares in Newcrest Mining Limited
 (“Newcrest”)

 

•Newcrest
 shareholders to receive 0.400 Newmont shares (or 0.400 Newmont CDI1) for each
 Newcrest share and a special dividend of up to $1.10 per share paid by Newcrest, representing
 a 30.4 percent premium2

 

•Further
 strengthens Newmont’s position as the responsible gold mining leader through the combination
 of high-quality operations, projects and reserves concentrated in low-risk jurisdictions,
 including 10 Tier 1 operations that will support decades of safe, profitable and responsible
 gold and copper production3

 

•Complementary
 businesses create substantial opportunities for optimization; estimated annual pre-tax synergies
 of $500 million expected to be achieved within first 24 months4

 

•Highly
 accretive for Newmont shareholders upon closing, with opportunity to enhance near-term cash
 flows, targeting at least $2 billion in the first two years after closing through portfolio
 optimization5

 

•Maintaining
 Newmont’s balanced capital allocation priorities and industry-leading dividend framework,
 which has returned over $4.5 billion to shareholders since established in October 2020

 

•The
 Scheme is unanimously recommended by the Board of Directors of Newcrest, subject to no superior
 proposal emerging for Newcrest and the Independent Expert concluding that the transaction
 is in the best interests of Newcrest shareholders

 

•The
 Board of Newmont unanimously recommends6 that Newmont stockholders vote in favor
 of the required Newmont stockholder resolution

 

•Transaction
 is subject to customary conditions, including shareholder approval, with completion expected
 in the fourth quarter of 2023

 

 

1 Clearing
House Electronic Sub-register System Depositary Interests representing a unit of beneficial ownership in a share of Newmont common stock.

2
Premium analysis calculated by reference to the exchange ratio of 0.400x shares of Newmont for each Newcrest share held and a
special dividend of up to USD$1.10 per Newcrest share resulting in an implied Newcrest equity value per share of A$29.27. Share prices based on NYSE trading of Newmont shares as at close of May 12, 2023 (US$45.94 per share), ASX trading of Newcrest shares as at close of February 3,
2023 (A$22.45 per share) and AUD/USD FX rate of 0.665.

3 See
endnote G regarding Tier 1 assets

4 See
endnote A regarding pre-tax synergies.

5 See
endnote B regarding portfolio optimization.

6 Recommendation
in the absence of a superior proposal emerging. 

Readers are reminded to refer to
the endnotes to this press release for additional information.

 

 Page 1 of 12
 
 

 

 

•Newmont
 will host investor webcast and conference call on May 15, 2023 at 8:00 a.m. Eastern
 Daylight Time (10:00 p.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time)

 

DENVER —
May 14, 2023 – Newmont Corporation (NYSE: NEM, TSX: NGT) today announced that following completion of due diligence it
has entered into a binding Scheme Implementation Deed (“SID”) under which Newmont will acquire 100 percent of the issued
share capital in Newcrest by way of an Australian court-approved Scheme of Arrangement (the “Scheme” or the “Transaction”).

 

“The
combination of Newmont and Newcrest represents an exceptional value proposition for shareholders and other stakeholders. It creates
an industry-leading portfolio with a multi-decade gold and copper production profile in the world’s most favorable mining
jurisdictions,” said Tom Palmer, President and CEO of Newmont. “Following a robust due diligence process, we have
identified a number of opportunities to unlock substantial value and will apply our experience and expertise to Newcrest’s
complementary and exceptional portfolio of long-life, low-cost gold and copper assets. Leveraging our experience from the
acquisition of Goldcorp four years ago, we are positioned to deliver an estimated $500 million in annual synergies and an estimated
$2 billion in incremental cash flow from portfolio optimization opportunities, both part of our strategy to maximize value for
shareholders and other stakeholders.”

 

Mr. Palmer
continued: “This transaction also increases Newmont’s annual copper production – a metal vital for the new energy economy
 – and adds nearly 50 billion pounds of copper reserves and resources from Newcrest to our robust and balanced portfolio7.
We intend to quickly realize these opportunities to create superior value for our shareholders, workforce, host communities and governments.”

 

Newcrest’s
Chairman, Peter Tomsett, added: “This transaction combines two of the world’s leading gold producers, bringing forward significant
value to Newcrest shareholders through the recognition of our outstanding growth pipeline. In addition to the ongoing benefits of merging
these premier portfolios, the combined group will set a new benchmark in gold production while benefitting from a material and growing
exposure to copper and a market leading position in safety and sustainability. The Newcrest Board is unanimously recommending the proposal.
We are very proud of the entire Newcrest team for building a world class metals business, which will form a key part of the combined
group. We believe our shareholders and other stakeholders can look forward to an exciting and prosperous future.”

 

 

7 Amounts
presented on an attributable basis. Reserves and resources data for Newcrest are historical reserves estimates as at June 30, 2022,
sourced from Newcrest’s company Annual Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Statement, dated August 19, 2022. Newmont has been
unable to update, and does not expect to be able to update, the Newcrest historical reserves estimates, prior to the completion of the
Transaction. Accordingly, Newmont is not treating these historical estimates as current estimates of mineral resources or mineral reserves
because a qualified person (as defined under SEC standards) has not done sufficient work to classify the estimate as a current estimate
of mineral resources or mineral reserves. See endnote F.

Readers are reminded to refer to
the endnotes to this press release for additional information.

 

 Page 2 of 12
 
 

 

 

TRANSACTION RATIONALE

 

The New Sustainability Standard

 

For the last eight
years, Newmont has been recognized as the top gold miner in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, and regularly ranks as the most transparent
company for sustainability disclosure in the S&P 500. Beyond Newcrest’s well-established sustainability credentials and top
quartile industry ranking, Newmont will apply its proven sustainability practices and leadership to Newcrest’s assets by:

 

•Bringing
 a clear focus on mitigating safety risks along with visible, felt leadership in the field
 to drive a fatality-free business

 

•Building
 on Newmont’s sustainability leadership and commitment to meaningful social engagement
 based on inclusion, transparency and integrity in order to be the partner of choice for governments,
 host communities, suppliers and workforce

 

•Remaining
 committed to Newmont’s leading environmental stewardship practices and climate goals

 

•Creating
 a diverse, inclusive and equitable workplace where everyone is welcome, attracting and retaining
 the breadth of skills and innovation needed to continuously improve performance

 

World-Class Portfolio

 

This acquisition
would create a world-class portfolio of assets with the highest concentration of Tier 1 operations, primarily in favorable, low-risk
mining jurisdictions. Supported by this portfolio, Newmont will be well-positioned to generate strong, stable and lasting returns with
best-in-class sustainability performance, well into the future.

 

Through the combination of high-quality
operations, projects and reserves, this portfolio is expected to deliver:

 

•Outstanding
 depth and breadth of global production focused across stable mining jurisdictions:8

 

oApproximately
 8 million ounces of total combined annual gold production upon closing the Transaction, with
 more than 5 million gold ounces, or two-thirds of total gold production, from 10 large, long-life,
 low cost, Tier 1 assets

 

oCombined
 annual copper production of approximately 350 million pounds from Australia and Canada

 

 

8 See
endnote C regarding past performance. Amounts presented on an attributable basis of 6.0 million ounces of gold production for Newmont’s
year ended December 31, 2022 and 2.0 million ounces of gold production for Newcrest’s year ended June 30, 2022, from
respective company filings.

Readers are
reminded to refer to the endnotes to this press release for additional information.

 

 Page 3 of 12
 
 

 

 

•An
 extensive portfolio of greenfield and brownfield growth options from the industry’s
 largest reserve and resource base:

 

o96
 million ounces of gold reserves declared by Newmont and 52 million ounces declared by Newcrest,
 along with 111 million and 68 million ounces of gold resources, respectively9

 

oSignificant
 majority of combined entity’s gold reserves will be located in the Americas and Australia

 

oValue-generating
 projects across some of the world’s most prospective regions including Canada’s
 Golden Triangle

 

•Meaningful
 increase in copper reserves, a critical metal in facilitating the transition to a new energy
 economy

 

•Maintaining
 a disciplined approach to mine planning and project development at reserve gold pricing,
 creating a resilient business to maximize long-term returns

 

Delivering Synergies

 

The combined business
would be immediately supported by Newmont’s scalable, integrated operating model with a deep bench of experienced leaders, subject
matter experts and existing regional teams in Australia and Canada. Building on the experience gained following the acquisition of Goldcorp,
Newmont has identified the opportunity for substantial synergies:

 

•$500
 million of total annual pre-tax synergies anticipated to be achieved within the first 24
 months following the completion of the Transaction:

 

oApproximately
 $100 million of pre-tax general and administrative synergies driven by

 

Newmont’s
scalable, integrated operating model with existing regional teams in Australia and Canada

 

oApproximately
 $200 million of supply chain synergies from best-in-class pricing and existing strong partnerships
 with key suppliers, smelters and equipment manufacturers through unprecedented economies
 of scale

 

oAt
 least $200 million of benefits from Newmont’s proven Full Potential continuous improvement
 program, which improves costs and productivity through the rapid replication of leading processes
 and advanced technology10

 

Further value creation
opportunities are anticipated as the Newcrest portfolio is fully integrated into Newmont, bringing together the industry’s best
talent and processes across two key mining jurisdictions, including, among other things, the benefits from the experience of Newcrest’s
world-class block caving team.

 

 

9 See
footnote 7 above and endnote F below.

10
See endnote D regarding Full Potential improvements.

Readers are reminded to refer to
the endnotes to this press release for additional information.

 

 Page 4 of 12
 
 

 

 

Australia

 

The Transaction
brings together two of Australia’s largest gold producers and would reinforce Newmont’s long-standing commitment to safe,
profitable and responsible gold and copper production in the country for decades to come.

 

Newmont will leverage
its existing regional operating model in Australia and, following the Transaction, will combine and optimize both companies’ leaders,
subject matter experts, supply chains and regional infrastructure to drive best-in-class performance.

 

Newmont intends
to apply for a foreign exempt listing on the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) and establish Clearing House Electronic
Sub-register System Depositary Interests (“CDIs”) on the ASX. Newcrest shareholders may elect to receive CDIs representing
a unit of beneficial ownership in Newmont common stock based on their country of residence.

 

Papua New Guinea

 

Upon closing of
the Transaction, Newmont will establish a regional presence and in-country offices in Papua New Guinea, committed to building and maintaining
strong, proactive and mutually beneficial relationships with host governments and local communities while supporting safe and profitable
operations.

 

Canada

 

Once complete,
the Transaction will solidify Newmont’s position in Canada through the combination of operating mines and development projects,
creating a Tier 1 district in British Columbia’s highly-prospective Golden Triangle.

 

The combination
will also leverage Newmont’s existing regional operating model in North America to combine and optimize both company’s leaders,
subject matter experts, supply chains and regional infrastructure to drive best-in-class performance.

 

Looking ahead,
the Company’s expanded footprint in Canada, together with shared ore body experience and technical expertise, could unlock gold
and copper opportunities from the combined organic project pipeline, including the key projects Galore Creek and Saddle North.

 

Newmont will maintain its current listing
on the TSX following closing of the Transaction.

 

 Page 5 of 12
 
 

 

 

Driving Capital Allocation

 

Newmont remains
committed to its capital allocation strategy, which starts with maintaining an investment grade balance sheet with strength and flexibility.
The combined company’s balance sheet will be supported by an even stronger, lower cost, diversified portfolio focused in low-risk
mining jurisdictions. With the sector’s largest reserve and resource base, the combined business will be in a very strong position
to advance the most value-accretive development opportunities and sustainably improve overall shareholder returns.

 

The Transaction
is highly accretive to Newmont shareholders which is further improved when anticipated synergies are fully realized within the first
24 months of closing. Additionally, Newmont intends to enhance cash flow by at least $2 billion in the first two years after closing
through portfolio optimization.

 

Newmont will remain committed to maintaining
its industry-leading dividend framework with a robust platform to drive leading returns throughout the price cycle:11

 

•$1.00
 per share at reserve pricing assumption of $1,400/oz

 

•Variable
 component is calibrated in gold price increments of $300 per ounce

 

•Variable
 component is assessed annually in alignment with the business planning cycle, considering
 the current macroeconomic environment and the current level of reinvestment in the business

 

•Supported
 by strong and flexible investment-grade balance sheet

 

•Dividend
 payouts are reviewed and approved quarterly by Newmont’s Board of Directors

 

TRANSACTION SUMMARY AND CLOSE TIMELINE

 

•Under
 the terms of the Scheme, Newmont will acquire all outstanding Newcrest shares and Newcrest
 shareholders will receive 0.400 Newmont shares (or 0.400 Newmont CDIs) for each Newcrest
 share held

 

•Newcrest
 will also fund and pay to its shareholders a franked special dividend of up to USD$1.10 per
 Newcrest share, conditional on the Scheme becoming effective

 

•Under
 the terms of the Scheme, and based on current market prices, the implied equity value of
 Newcrest is A$26.2 billion12, including the dividend, with an enterprise value
 of A$28.8 billion13

 

•Upon
 implementation of the Scheme, Newmont and Newcrest shareholders will own approximately 69
 percent and 31 percent of the combined entity, respectively

 

 

11
Expectations regarding 2023 dividend levels are forward-looking statements. See endnote E regarding our dividend framework.

12 Implied equity value calculated
by reference to the exchange ratio of 0.400x shares of Newmont for each Newcrest share held and a special dividend of up to US$1.10 per
Newcrest share resulting in an implied Newcrest equity value per share of A$29.27 multiplied by 894,230,732 Newcrest shares outstanding.
Share prices based on NYSE trading of Newmont shares as at close of May 12, 2023 (US$45.94 per share) and AUD / USD FX rate of 0.665.

13 Newcrest enterprise value
calculated as implied equity value plus net debt of US$1.7 billion. 

Readers
are reminded to refer to the endnotes to this press release for additional information.

 

 Page 6 of 12
 
 

 

 

•The
 Scheme is subject to customary conditions including:

 

oShareholder
 approvals from both companies

 

▪Newcrest:
 more than 50 percent of shareholders voting and at least 75 percent of votes cast

 

▪Newmont:
 more than 50 percent of votes cast

 

oThe
 Independent Expert concluding that the Scheme is in the best interests of Newcrest shareholders

 

oRelevant
 regulatory approvals

 

oNo
 material adverse event or prescribed occurrences in respect of either company

 

•Newcrest
 and Newmont are each subject to customary exclusivity restrictions, including no-shop, no-talk,
 and no diligence restrictions, subject to certain customary exceptions

 

•The
 SID contemplates a break/termination fee (payable by Newcrest) and a reverse break/termination
 fee (payable by Newmont) in certain circumstances, with the quantum of each determined by
 reference to 1 percent of the equity value of the corresponding party (with a discounted
 amount of the reverse break fee payable, only to reimburse Newcrest for its third party costs,
 if Newmont stockholder approval is not ultimately obtained)

 

•Newmont
 intends to apply for a foreign exempt listing and establish CDIs on the ASX with respect
 to Newmont shares issued to Newcrest shareholders

 

•The
 Transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2023

 

GOVERNANCE

 

Gregory Boyce will
continue as Chair of Newmont’s Board of Directors (“Board”) and the Board will select two directors from Newcrest to
join the Newmont Board. Tom Palmer will continue as President and Chief Executive Officer of Newmont and will lead the combined company
with a focus on safely and responsibly leading the combined workforce, integrating the acquired assets and delivering on shareholder
commitments.

 

 Page 7 of 12
 
 

 

 

ANALYST AND INVESTOR WEBCAST AND
CONFERENCE CALL

 

Newmont – Business Update

May 15, 2023 at 8 a.m. Eastern
Daylight Time (10 p.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time)

 

 
 Conference Call
 Details
 
 
 
 
 
 Dial-In Number
 833.470.1428
 
 Intl Dial-In Number
 404.975.483914
 
 Dial-in Access Code
 984641
 
 Conference Name
 Newmont
 
 Replay Number
 866.813.9403
 
 Replay Access Code
 375213
 
 

Webcast Details

 

Title: Newmont – Business Update

URL: https://events.q4inc.com/attendee/420915744

 

The webcast materials
will be available before the conference call on the “Investor Relations” section of the Company’s website, www.newmont.com.
Additionally, the conference call will be archived for a limited time on the Company’s website.

 

ADVISORS AND COUNSEL

 

In connection with
the Transaction, Newmont has engaged BofA Securities, Centerview Partners LLC, Lazard and BMO Capital Markets as its financial advisers,
and King & Wood Mallesons and White & Case LLP as its legal advisers. Mackenzie Partners, Inc. will act as proxy
solicitation agent.

 

ABOUT NEWMONT

 

Newmont is the
world’s leading gold company and a producer of copper, silver, zinc and lead. The Company’s world-class portfolio of assets,
prospects and talent is anchored in favorable mining jurisdictions in North America, South America, Australia and Africa. Newmont is
the only gold producer listed in the S&P 500 Index and is widely recognized for its principled environmental, social and governance
practices. The Company is an industry leader in value creation, supported by robust safety standards, superior execution and technical
expertise. Newmont was founded in 1921 and has been publicly traded since 1925.

 

 

14 For a full list of toll-free
phone numbers, refer to the following link: https://www.netroadshow.com/events/global-numbers?confId=51039

Readers are reminded to refer to
the endnotes to this press release for additional information.

 

 Page 8 of 12
 
 

 

 

At Newmont, our purpose is to create
value and improve lives through sustainable and responsible mining. To learn more about Newmont’s sustainability strategy and initiatives,
go to www.newmont.com.

 

Media Contact

 

Omar Jabara
720.212.9651

omar.jabara@newmont.com 

 

Investor Contact

 

Daniel Horton
303.837.5468

daniel.horton@newmont.com 

 

Additional Information about the
Transaction and Where to Find It

 

This press release
is not an offer to purchase or exchange, nor a solicitation of an offer to sell securities of Newmont or Newcrest nor the solicitation
of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction nor shall there be any such issuance or transfer of securities of Newmont or Newcrest in
any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law. This press release is being made in respect of the transaction involving Newmont
and Newcrest pursuant to the terms of a scheme implementation deed dated May 15, 2023 (the “Scheme Implementation Deed”)
by and among Newmont, Newmont Overseas Holdings Pty Ltd, an Australian proprietary company limited by shares an indirect wholly owned
subsidiary of Newmont, and Newcrest and may be deemed to be soliciting material relating to the transaction. In furtherance of the pending
transaction and subject to future developments, Newmont will file one or more proxy statements or other documents with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). This press release is not a substitute for any proxy statement, the Scheme Booklet
or other document Newmont or Newcrest may file with the SEC and Australian regulators in connection with the pending transaction. INVESTORS
AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF NEWMONT AND NEWCREST ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT(S), SCHEME BOOKLET AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH
THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY IF AND WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING OR INVESTMENT DECISION WITH RESPECT TO
THE TRANSACTION AS THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PENDING TRANSACTION AND THE PARTIES TO THE TRANSACTION. The definitive
proxy statement will be mailed to Newmont stockholders. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statements,
the filings with the SEC that will be incorporated by reference into the proxy statement, the Scheme Booklet and other documents containing
important information about the transaction and the parties to the transaction, filed by Newmont with the SEC at the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov. The disclosure documents and other documents that are filed with the SEC by Newmont may also be obtained on https://www.newmont.com/investors/reports-and-filings/default.aspx
or by contacting Newmont’s Investor Relations department at Daniel.Horton@newmont.com or by calling 303-837-5484.

 

Participants in the Transaction Solicitation

 

Newmont, Newcrest
and certain of their respective directors and executive officers and other employees may be deemed to be participants in any solicitation
of proxies from Newmont shareholders in respect of the pending transaction between Newmont and Newcrest. Information regarding Newmont’s
directors and executive officers is available in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 filed
with the SEC on February 23, 2023 and its proxy statement for its 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the
SEC on March 10, 2023. Information about Newcrest’s directors and executive officers is set forth in Newcrest’s latest
annual report dated August 19, 2022 as updated from time to time via announcements made by Newcrest on the Australian Securities
Exchange. Additional information regarding the interests of these participants in such proxy solicitation and a description of their
direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in any proxy statement and other relevant materials
to be filed with the SEC in connection with the pending transaction if and when they become available.

 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements

 

This press release,
and the exhibits hereto, contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the
safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable
Australian securities laws. Where a forward-looking statement expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results,
such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis.

 

 Page 9 of 12
 
 

 

However, such statements
are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed,
projected or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial
performance and financial condition; and often contain words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,”
 “will,” “would,” “estimate,” “expect,” “believe,” “target,” “indicative,”
 “pending,” “preliminary,” “proposed” or “potential.” Forward-looking statements may include,
without limitation, statements relating to (i) the pending transaction to acquire the share capital of Newcrest, the expected terms,
timing and closing of the pending transaction, including receipt of required approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions;
(ii) estimates of future production, including expected annual production range; (iii) estimates of future costs applicable
to sales and all-in sustaining costs; (iv) estimates of future cash flow enhancements through portfolio optimization, cost reductions,
synergies, including pre-tax synergies, savings and efficiencies; (v) expectations regarding future exploration and the development,
growth and potential of Newmont’s and Newcrest’s operations, project pipeline and investments; (vi) expectations regarding
future investments or divestitures, including anticipated divestitures over the next two years; (vii) expected listing of common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange, the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Australian Securities Exchange; and (viii) expectations
from the integration of Newcrest, including the combined company’s production capacity, asset quality and geographic spread. Estimates
or expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. Such assumptions, include,
but are not limited to: (i) there being no significant change to current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical
conditions; (ii) permitting, development, operations and expansion of Newmont’s and Newcrest’s operations and projects
being consistent with current expectations and mine plans, including without limitation receipt of export approvals; (iii) political
developments in any jurisdiction in which Newmont and Newcrest operate being consistent with its current expectations; (iv) certain
exchange rate assumptions for the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar, as well as other the exchange rates being approximately consistent
with current levels; (v) certain price assumptions for gold, copper, silver, lead and oil; (vi) prices for key supplies being
approximately consistent with current levels; (vii) the accuracy of current mineral reserve, mineral resource and mineralized material
estimates; and (viii) other planning assumptions. Risks relating to forward looking statements in regard to the Company’s
business and future performance may include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, operational
risks, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political risk, community
relations, conflict resolution governmental regulation and judicial outcomes and other risks. In addition, material risks that could
cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements include: the inherent uncertainty associated with financial or other projections;
the prompt and effective integration of Newmont’s and Newcrest’s businesses and the ability to achieve the anticipated synergies
and value-creation contemplated by the pending transaction; the risk associated with Newmont’s and Newcrest’s ability to
obtain the approval of the pending transaction by their shareholders required to consummate the pending transaction and the timing of
the closing of the pending transaction, including the risk that the conditions to the pending transaction are not satisfied on a timely
basis or at all and the failure of the pending transaction to close for any other reason; the risk that a consent or authorization that
may be required for the pending transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; the outcome
of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against the parties and others related to the Scheme Implementation Deed; unanticipated
difficulties or expenditures relating to the pending transaction, the response of business partners and retention as a result of the
announcement and pendency of the transaction; risks relating to the value of the Scheme Consideration to be issued in connection with
the pending transaction; the anticipated size of the markets and continued demand for Newmont’s and Newcrest’s resources
and the impact of competitive responses to the announcement of the transaction; and the diversion of management time on pending transaction-related
issues. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see Newmont’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC as well as the Company’s other SEC filings, available on the SEC website or www.newmont.com
Newcrest’s most recent annual report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 as well as Newcrest’s other filings made
with Australian securities regulatory authorities and available on ASIC or www.newcrest.com. Newmont is not affirming or adopting any
statements or reports attributed to Newcrest (including prior mineral reserve and resource declaration) in this press release or made
by Newcrest outside of this press release. Newcrest is not affirming or adopting any statements or reports attributed to Newmont (including
prior mineral reserve and resource declaration) in this press release or made by Newmont outside of this press release. Newmont and Newcrest
do not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any “forward-looking statement,” including, without limitation,
outlook, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events,
except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that any lack of update to a previously issued
 “forward-looking statement” constitutes a reaffirmation of that statement. Continued reliance on “forward-looking statements”
is at investors’ own risk.

 

Notice Regarding Reserves and Resources:

 

Unless otherwise stated herein, the
reserves stated in this release represent estimates at December 31, 2022, which could be economically and legally extracted or produced
at the time of the reserve determination. Estimates of proven and probable reserves are subject to considerable uncertainty. Such estimates
are, or will be, to a large extent, based on metal prices and interpretations of geologic data obtained from drill holes and other exploration
techniques, which data may not necessarily be indicative of future results. Additionally, resource does not indicate proven and
probable reserves as defined by the SEC or the Company’s standards. Estimates of measured, indicated
and inferred resource are subject to further exploration and development, and are, therefore, subject to considerable uncertainty. Inferred
resources, in particular, have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and their economic and legal feasibility. The Company
cannot be certain that any part or parts of the resource will ever be converted into reserves. For additional information on our reserves
and resources, please see Item 2 of the Company’s Form 10-K, filed on February 23, 2023 with the SEC.

 Page 10 of 12
 
 

 

 

See endnote F below regarding estimates
of Newcrest’s reserves and resources.

 

Endnotes

 

A.Synergies.
 Synergies and value creation as used in this press release is a management estimate provided
 for illustrative purposes and should not be considered a GAAP or non-GAAP financial measure.
 Synergies represent management’s combined estimate of pre-tax synergies, supply chain
 efficiencies and Full Potential improvements, as a result of the integration of Newmont’s
 and Newcrest’s businesses that have been monetized for the purposes of the estimation.
 Because synergy estimates reflect differences between certain actual costs incurred and management
 estimates of costs that would have been incurred in the absence of the integration of Newmont’s
 and Newcrest’s businesses, such estimates are necessarily imprecise and are based on
 numerous judgments and assumptions. Synergies are “forward-looking statements”
 subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual value creation
 to differ from expected or past synergies.

 

B.Portfolio
 Optimization. Portfolio optimization as used in this press release is a management estimate
 provided for illustrative purposes and should not be considered a GAAP or non-GAAP financial
 measure. Because the enhancement to cash flow estimates the differences between certain actual
 cash flows and management estimates of cash flows in the absence of the integration of Newmont’s
 and Newcrest’s businesses, such estimates are necessarily imprecise and are based on
 numerous judgments and assumptions. Portfolio optimization to enhance cash flows is a “forward-looking
 statement” subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause enhanced
 cash flows to differ from expectations.

 

C.Past
 Performance. Past performance metrics and figures included in this presentation are given
 for illustrative purposes only and should not be relied upon as (and are not) an indication
 of Newmont’s views on its or Newcrest’s future production, financial performance
 or condition or prospects (including on a consolidated basis). Investors should note that
 past performance of Newmont, including in relation to the past value returned to stockholders
 and past value creation and annual synergies, and other historical financial information
 cannot be relied upon as an indicator of (and provide no guidance, assurance or guarantee
 as to) future production or performance.

 

D.Full
 Potential. Full Potential improvement value creation is considered an operating measure
 provided for illustrative purposes, and should not be considered GAAP or non-GAAP financial
 measures. Full Potential amounts are estimates utilized by management that represent estimated
 cumulative incremental value realized as a result of Full Potential projects implemented
 and are based upon both cost savings and efficiencies that have been monetized for purposes
 of the estimation. Because Full Potential improvement estimates reflect differences between
 certain actual costs incurred and management estimates of costs that would have been incurred
 in the absence of the Full Potential program, such estimates are necessarily imprecise and
 are based on numerous judgments and assumptions. Expectations of the results of Full Potential
 savings, synergies or improvements are forward-looking statements and subject to risks and
 uncertainties.

 

E.Dividend.
 Our future dividends have not yet been approved or declared by the Board of Directors. An
 annualized dividend payout level has not been declared by the Board and is non-binding. The
 Company’s dividend framework and expected 2023 dividend payout ranges are non-binding.
 Management’s expectations with respect to future dividends, annualized dividends, payout
 ranges or dividend yield are “forward-looking statements.” The declaration and
 payment of future dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be
 determined based on Newmont’s financial results, balance sheet strength, cash and liquidity
 requirements, future prospects, gold and commodity prices, and other factors deemed relevant
 by the Board. The duration, scope and impact of COVID-19 presents additional uncertainties
 with respect to future dividends and no assurance is being provided that the Company will
 pay future dividends at the increased payment level. The Board of Directors reserves all
 powers related to the declaration and payment of dividends. Consequently, in determining
 the dividend to be declared and paid on the common stock of the Company, the Board of Directors
 may revise or terminate the payment level at any time without prior notice.

 

 Page 11 of 12
 
 

 

 

F.Cautionary
 Statement Regarding the Newcrest Historical Reserves Estimates: The mineral resource
 and mineral reserve estimates stated herein with respect to Newcrest (the “Newcrest
 Historical Reserves Estimates”) were prepared to meet the reporting requirements of
 the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) Listing Rules Chapter 5, December 2019;
 the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves,
 December 2012 (“JORC Code”), and were prepared in accordance with National
 Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”)
 of the Canadian Securities Administrators, June 2011, Canadian Institute of Mining,
 Metallurgy and Petroleum Definition Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves,
 May 2014 and the rules of the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”). Investors
 should note that the requirements of the JORC Code and NI 43-101 differ from the requirements
 of Subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K. Reserves and resources prepared under the JORC Code and
 NI-43-101 are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed
 with the SEC. Certain of the Newcrest Historical Reserves Estimates include inferred resources,
 which would not be permitted under Subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K. Inferred resources involve
 a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and their economic and legal feasibility.
 A significant amount of exploration must be completed in order to determine whether an inferred
 resource may be upgraded to a higher category. US investors are cautioned not to assume that
 all or any part of an inferred resource exists or is economically or legally mineable. Accordingly,
 there is no assurance that the Newcrest Historical Reserves Estimates or any other mineral
 reserves or mineral resources that Newcrest may report under JORC or NI 43-101 will be the
 same as the mineral reserve or mineral resource estimates prepared under Subpart 1300 of
 Regulation S-K. The Newcrest Historical Reserves Estimates are subject to review and adjustment
 following closing of the pending Transaction, in accordance with Subpart 1300 of Regulation
 S-K adopted by the SEC, including to meet required study levels, price assumptions, for future
 divestments and acquisitions and other factors. No assurances can be made that all historical
 Newcrest mineral reserves or mineral resources will be recognized as Newmont mineral reserves
 or mineral resources. Under Subpart 1300 of Regulation S-K, a registrant’s disclosure
 of exploration results, mineral resources or mineral reserves must be based on and accurately
 reflect information and supporting documentation prepared by a qualified person. Newmont
 has not been involved in the preparation of Newcrest’s historical mining reserve or
 mining resource estimates. Accordingly, Newmont assumes no responsibility for such estimates.
 Expectations regarding future reserves and resource declarations should be considered “forward-looking
 statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
 amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are
 intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws.

 

G.Tier
 1 Asset. Defined as +500k GEOs/year consolidated, average AISC/oz in the lower half of
 the industry cost curve and a mine life >10 years in countries that are classified in
 the A and B rating ranges for each of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch.

 

H.Gold
 equivalent ounces (GEOs). Calculated as pounds or ounces produced multiplied by the ratio
 of the other metal’s price to the gold price, using Gold ($1,400/oz.), Copper ($3.50/lb.),
 Silver ($20/oz.), Lead ($1.00/lb.), and Zinc ($1.20/lb.) pricing.

 Page 12 of 12