EX-99.1
2
tm235610d4_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

Newmont Announces Appointment of Mining Veteran
Natascha Viljoen as Incoming Chief Operating Officer

 

DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Newmont Corporation (NYSE:
NEM, TSX: NGT) today announced that Natascha Viljoen will join the Company’s Executive Leadership Team as Executive Vice President
and Chief Operating Officer upon completion of her notice period of up to 12 months.

 

As a seasoned industry leader with over 30 years
of experience across a diverse range of commodities, Natascha further strengthens Newmont’s technical, operational and
management capabilities. Natascha has served as the CEO of Anglo American’s platinum business in South Africa since 2020, the
world’s largest primary producer of platinum. At Anglo American, Natascha is responsible for managing a team of more than
25,000 employees and six owned and joint venture mining operations with an integrated value chain and down-stream processing across
two countries. Prior to her CEO appointment, Natascha held a series of operating and technical positions within the organization,
including as Group Head of Processing.

 

Prior to joining Anglo American, Natascha spent six
years at Lonmin, where she served on the executive committee as Executive Vice President of Processing, also with responsibility for several
wider corporate functions, including sustainability. Natascha is a metallurgical engineer and holds a Bachelor of Engineering from North
West University in South Africa and an Executive MBA from the University of Cape Town, South Africa.

 

“Natascha has shown outstanding leadership
transforming technical processing capabilities at Anglo American and we are excited to have her join the Newmont Executive
Leadership Team,” said Tom Palmer, Newmont President and CEO. “Natascha will further strengthen our leadership
capabilities as we continue to build a resilient and profitable future for the company – safely delivering on our commitments
and continuing to differentiate Newmont as the recognized leader for sustainable and responsible gold mining.”

 

Upon completion of the notice period and a planful
transition, Rob Atkinson, Executive Vice President and COO, will transition into a new role reporting directly to Tom Palmer, President
and CEO, focused on driving strategic initiatives to strengthen Newmont’s responsible gold leadership position.

 

“Robs leadership has been critical to the success
of Newmont since mid-2019. Rob has driven significant value across Newmont, including safely and successfully
navigating through a global pandemic, improving our safety performance with a focus on fatality risk management and successfully integrating
key assets, such as Peñasquito, to deliver significant shareholder value,” said Tom Palmer, Newmont President and CEO. “We
are fortunate to retain Rob and his leadership, extensive experience and expertise as we navigate a volatile environment and the next
set of challenges for our industry.”

 

 Page 1 of 2
 
 

 

 

 

###

 

About Newmont

 

Newmont is the world’s leading gold company and a producer of
copper, silver, zinc and lead. The Company’s world-class portfolio of assets, prospects and talent is anchored in favorable mining
jurisdictions in North America, South America, Australia and Africa. Newmont is the only gold producer listed in the S&P 500 Index
and is widely recognized for its principled environmental, social and governance practices. The Company is an industry leader in value
creation, supported by robust safety standards, superior execution and technical expertise. Newmont was founded in 1921 and has been publicly
traded since 1925.

 

At Newmont, our purpose is to create
value and improve lives through sustainable and responsible mining. To learn more about Newmont’s sustainability strategy and initiatives,
go to www.newmont.com.

 

Media Contact 

Carolina Lucaroni 

786.643.9230 

carolina.lucaroni@newmont.com

 

Investor Contact 

Daniel Horton 

303.837.5468 

daniel.horton@newmont.com

 

 Page 2 of 2