EX-99.1
2
tm2030311d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

Newmont Achieves Gender
Parity for Non-Executive Directors

 

Experienced Leader and Director,
Susan N. Story, joins the Board

 

DENVER, September 8, 2020 – Newmont Corporation
(NYSE: NEM, TSX: NGT) (Newmont or the Company) announced today the election of Susan N. Story to the Board of Directors effective
September 10th.

 

With more than 38 years of experience in the water,
energy and electricity industries, Ms. Story is a highly accomplished and successful leader in operations, finance, policy, insights
and strategy. She served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of American Water Works Co. Inc. until her retirement in
April 2020, having previously served as its Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and in senior executive roles at
Southern Company and Gulf Power Company. Ms. Story currently serves as the Lead Independent Director of Raymond James Financial,
Inc., serving on the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, Securities Repurchase Committee and the Securities Offerings
Committee, and is a current Director on the Board of Dominion Energy, where she serves on the Audit Committee and the Finance
and Risk Oversight Committee. She previously served on the Board of American Water.

 

Newmont also announced the retirement of J. Kofi Bucknor,
who has faithfully served as an independent director since 2012. Mr. Bucknor’s decision to retire from the Board was for
personal reasons and was not the result of any dispute or disagreement with the Company.

 

“The Board thanks Kofi for his dedicated service
to the Company over the last eight years. His global financial expertise, regional insights and thoughtful nature have been highly
valued by his fellow directors,” said Noreen Doyle, Chair of the Newmont’s Board of Directors. “We are thrilled
to welcome Susan to Newmont. Her extensive leadership experience make her an outstanding addition to our Board.”

 

Newmont has been recognized as a leader in Board diversity
and inclusive leadership. Newmont’s Board consists of a broad range of backgrounds, experiences, talents and nationalities,
with over 50% of Newmont’s 2020 Board slate having been gender or ethnically diverse. With the addition of Ms. Story, Newmont
Board continues to lead in diversity by achieving gender parity amongst non-executive board members - with five female and five
male independent directors.

 

“At Newmont, we are proud that the commitment
to diversity and reflecting Newmont’s values starts at the top. Newmont’s core value of inclusion and diversity helps
us attract and retain the industry’s top talent so we can achieve differentiated business results today and well into the
future,” said Tom Palmer, President and Chief Executive Officer.

 

###

 

 NEWMONT BOARD OF DIRECTOR ANNOUNCEMENTPage 1 of 2
 
 

 

 

About Newmont 

 

Newmont is the world’s leading gold company and a
producer of copper, silver, zinc and lead. The Company’s world-class portfolio of assets, prospects and talent is
anchored in favorable mining jurisdictions in North America, South America, Australia and Africa. Newmont is the only gold
producer listed in the S&P 500 Index and is widely recognized for its principled environmental, social and governance
practices. The Company is an industry leader in value creation, supported by robust safety standards, superior execution and
technical expertise. Newmont was founded in 1921 and has been publicly traded since 1925.

 

 Media Contact
 
 

 Eric Colby
 303.837.5724
 eric.colby@newmont.com

 

Investor Contact

 Jessica Largent
 303.837.5484
 jessica.largent@newmont.com

 

 NEWMONT BOARD OF DIRECTOR ANNOUNCEMENTPage 2 of 2