EX-99.1
2
tm2133735d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 
 
 6900 E Layton Avenue
 Suite 700
 Denver, CO 80237
 
 
 P 303.863.7414
 F 303.837.5837
 newmont.com
 
 News Release
 
 NYSE: NEM & TSX: NGT
 

 

Newmont Appoints Two New Board Directors

 

Company Further Strengthens Board’s Industry Experience
and Diversity

 

DENVER, November 23, 2021 – Today, Newmont Corporation
(NYSE: NEM, TSX:NGT) announced the appointment of Dr. Emma FitzGerald and Mary Laschinger to its Board of Directors effective December
1, 2021.

 

Emma FitzGerald is the former Chief Executive Officer of Puma Energy
International and a leader in delivering energy solutions around the world. Emma has a deep understanding of the energy and water industries
and operating successfully in developing markets from leading customer facing downstream businesses during a more than 20 year career
with Royal Dutch Shell. She is a member of the Board of UPM Kymmene oyj, the Biofore Company, and serves on the Audit and Remuneration
Committees. She is also a member of the Board of Seplat Energy plc, where she serves on the Finance, Energy Transition and Sustainability
Committees. She is a portfolio advisor with Oxford Science Enterprises and a mentor on the Creative Destruction Lab Climate stream to
help accelerate innovations supporting the energy transition. She also acts as an expert advisor to the World Economic Forum supporting
mobilization of financing to drive energy transition in developing markets.

 

Mary Laschinger is the former Chief Executive Officer of Veritiv, a
Fortune 500 business-to-business distribution solutions company. Prior her time at Veritiv, she was a senior leader at International Paper
Company, with valuable global business experience as President of their Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Russia business from 2005 to
2010, as well as holding senior management roles in sales, marketing, manufacturing, and supply chain. She is a member of the Board of
Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, where she chairs the Audit Committee. She is also a member of the Board of Directors
for Kellogg Company, where she chairs the Compensation and Talent Management Committee and serves on the Executive and Nominating and
Governance Committees.

 

“We are thrilled to welcome these two experienced and distinguished
directors to Newmont,” said Gregory Boyce, Chair of Newmont’s Board of Directors. “Their outstanding senior management
experience, comprehensive knowledge of complex global operations and deep understanding of governance and oversight make them excellent
additions to our Board.”

 

“Newmont’s Board of Directors brings a broad range of backgrounds,
experiences and talents, along with ethnic and gender diversity, to our governance process,” said Newmont President and CEO Tom
Palmer. “Having a diverse Board with deep senior management experience in industry as well as specialized fields is a priority for
Newmont. With the addition of Dr. FitzGerald and Ms. Laschinger, Newmont’s Board is further strengthened”.

 

###

 

 Newmont Announces Election of New Directors to Its Board Page 1 of 2
 
 

 

 
 
 
 6900 E Layton Avenue
 Suite 700
 Denver, CO 80237
 
 
 P 303.863.7414
 F 303.837.5837
 newmont.com
 
 News Release
 
 NYSE: NEM & TSX: NGT
 
 

About Newmont 

 

Newmont is the world’s leading gold company and a producer of
copper, silver, zinc and lead. The Company’s world-class portfolio of assets, prospects and talent is anchored in favorable mining
jurisdictions in North America, South America, Australia and Africa. Newmont is the only gold producer listed in the S&P 500 Index
and is widely recognized for its principled environmental, social and governance practices. The Company is an industry leader in value
creation, supported by robust safety standards, superior execution and technical expertise. Newmont was founded in 1921 and has been publicly
traded since 1925.

 

At Newmont, our purpose is to create value and improve lives
through sustainable and responsible mining. To learn more about Newmont’s sustainability strategy and initiatives, visit us at
www.newmont.com.

 

 
 Newmont Media Contact
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Courtney Boone
 
 303.837.5159
 
 courtney.boone@newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Newmont Investor Contact
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Daniel Horton
 
 303.837.5468
 
 daniel.horton@newmont.com
 
 
 

 Newmont Announces Election of New Directors to Its Board Page 2 of 2