EX-99.1
2
a19-7870_5ex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1
 

 
Newmont Goldcorp Combination Receives Approval Under Investment Canada Act
 
ICA approval allows for transaction closing to proceed
 
DENVER, April 12, 2019 — Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) (Newmont or the Company) today announced that the Minister of Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada cleared Newmont and Goldcorp to proceed with their previously announced combination. With this approval, Newmont and Goldcorp can now move forward with closing the transaction.
 
Mexico’s Competition Commission approved the combination in March, following clearance from the Canadian Competition Bureau and the Korea Fair Trade Commission in February.
 
“With the overwhelming support of both companies’ shareholders and the necessary regulatory approvals in hand, we will close the transaction on April 18th,” said Gary Goldberg, Chief Executive Officer. “We are grateful to our employees, shareholders, partners and government stakeholders for their support and cooperation throughout this process.”
 
Following transaction close, Newmont Goldcorp will continue trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) with the ticker ‘NEM’ and will begin trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) with the ticker ‘NGT’. Goldcorp’s common shares will be delisted from the exchanges following closing.
 
Immediately upon transaction close, which is expected on April 18, Newmont Goldcorp will:
 
· Be accretive to Newmont’s Net Asset Value per share by 27 percent, and to the combined company’s 2020 cash flow per share by 34 percent;i
· Begin delivering $365 million in expected annual pre-tax synergies, supply chain efficiencies and Full Potential improvements, representing $4.4 billion in Net Present Value (pre-tax);ii
· Target six to seven million ounces of steady gold production over a decades-long time horizon;i
· Have the largest gold Reserves and Resources in the gold sector, including on a per share basis;
· Be located in favorable mining jurisdictions and prolific gold districts on four continents;
· Deliver the highest dividend among senior gold producers;iii
· Offer financial flexibility and an investment-grade balance sheet to advance the most promising projects at an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of at least 15 percent;iv
· Feature a deep bench of accomplished business leaders, technical teams and other talent with extensive mining industry experience; and
· Maintain industry leadership in environmental, social and governance performance.
 
About Newmont
 
Newmont is a leading gold and copper producer. The Company’s operations are primarily in the United States, Australia, Ghana, Peru and Suriname. Newmont is the only gold producer listed in the S&P 500 Index and was named the mining industry leader by the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. The Company is an industry leader in value creation, supported by its leading technical, environmental, social and safety performance. Newmont was founded in 1921 and has been publicly traded since 1925.
 
###
 
1

 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities laws. Where a forward-looking statement expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “would,” “estimate,” “expect,” “believe,” “target,” “indicative,” “preliminary,” or “potential.” Forward-looking statements in this press release may include, without limitation: (i) statements relating to Newmont’s planned acquisition of Goldcorp (the “proposed transaction”) and the expected terms, timing and closing of the proposed transaction, including satisfaction of customary closing conditions; (ii) estimates of future production and sales, including expected annual production range; (iii) estimates of future costs applicable to sales and all-in sustaining costs; (iv) expectations regarding accretion; (v) estimates of future capital expenditures; (vi) estimates of future cost reductions, efficiencies and synergies, including, without limitation, G&A savings, supply chain efficiencies, full potential improvement, integration opportunities and other improvements and savings; (vii) expectations regarding future exploration and the development, growth and potential of Newmont’s and Goldcorp’s operations, project pipeline and investments, including, without limitation, project returns, expected average IRR, schedule, decision dates, mine life, commercial start, first production, capital average production, average costs and upside potential; (viii) expectations regarding future investments or divestitures; (ix) expectations of future dividends and returns to stockholders; (x) expectations of future free cash flow generation, liquidity, balance sheet strength and credit ratings; (xi) expectations of future equity and enterprise value; (xii) expectations of future plans and benefits; (xiii) expectations regarding future mineralization, including, without limitation, expectations regarding reserves and resources, grade and recoveries; and (xiv) estimates of future closure costs and liabilities. Estimates or expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. Such assumptions, include, but are not limited to: (i) there being no significant change to current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions; (ii) permitting, development, operations and expansion of Newmont’s and Goldcorp’s operations and projects being consistent with current expectations and mine plans, including, without limitation, receipt of export approvals; (iii) political developments in any jurisdiction in which Newmont and Goldcorp operate being consistent with its current expectations; (iv) certain exchange rate assumptions for the Australian dollar or the Canadian dollar to the U.S. dollar, as well as other exchange rates being approximately consistent with current levels; (v) certain price assumptions for gold, copper, silver, zinc, lead and oil; (vi) prices for key supplies being approximately consistent with current levels; (vii) the accuracy of current mineral reserve, mineral resource and mineralized material estimates; and (viii) other planning assumptions. Risks relating to forward-looking statements in regard to the Newmont’s and Goldcorp’s business and future performance may include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, operational risks, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political risk, community relations, conflict resolution governmental regulation and judicial outcomes and other risks. In addition, material risks that could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements include: the inherent uncertainty associated with financial or other projections; the prompt and effective integration of Newmont’s and Goldcorp’s businesses and the ability to achieve the anticipated synergies and value-creation contemplated by the proposed transaction; the risk associated with the timing of the closing of the proposed transaction, including the risk that the conditions to the transaction are not satisfied on a timely basis or at all and the failure of the transaction to close for any other reason; the risk that a consent or authorization that may be required for the proposed transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against the parties and others related to the arrangement agreement; unanticipated difficulties or expenditures relating to the transaction, the response of business partners and retention as a result of the announcement and pendency of the transaction; potential volatility in the price of Newmont Common Stock due to the proposed transaction; the anticipated size of the markets and continued demand for Newmont’s and Goldcorp’s resources and the impact of competitive responses to the announcement of the transaction; and the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see Newmont’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) as well as the Company’s other SEC filings, available on the SEC website or www.newmont.com, Goldcorp’s most recent annual information form as well as Goldcorp’s other filings made with Canadian securities regulatory authorities and available on SEDAR, on the SEC website or www.goldcorp.com. Newmont is not affirming or adopting any statements or reports attributed to Goldcorp (including prior mineral reserve and resource declaration) in this press release or made by Goldcorp outside of this press release. Goldcorp is not affirming or adopting any statements or reports attributed to Newmont (including prior mineral reserve and resource declaration) in this press release or made by Newmont outside of this press release. Newmont and Goldcorp do not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any “forward-looking statement,” including, without limitation, outlook, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that any lack of update to a previously issued “forward-looking statement” constitutes a reaffirmation of that statement. Continued reliance on “forward-looking statements” is at investors’ own risk.
 
Media Contact
 

Omar Jabara 

303.837.5114 

omar.jabara@newmont.com 
 
Investor Contact
 

Jessica Largent 

303.837.5484 

jessica.largent@newmont.com 
 
2

 

i Caution Regarding Projections: Projections used in this release are considered “forward looking statements”. See cautionary statement above regarding forward-looking statements. Forward-looking information representing post-closing expectations is inherently uncertain. Estimates such as expected accretion, NAV, Net Present Value creation, synergies, expected future production, IRR, financial flexibility and balance sheet strength are preliminary in nature. There can be no assurance that the proposed transaction will close or that the forward-looking information will prove to be accurate.
ii Net Present Value (NPV) creation as used in this release is a management estimate provided for illustrative purposes, and should not be considered a GAAP or non-GAAP financial measure. NPV creation represents management’s combined estimate of pre-tax synergies, supply chain efficiencies and Full Potential improvements, as a result of the proposed transaction that have been monetized and projected over a twenty year period for purposes of the estimation, applying a discount rate of 5 percent. Such estimates are necessarily imprecise and are based on numerous judgments and assumptions. Expected NPV creation is a “forward-looking statement” subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual value creation to differ from expected value creation.
iii 2019 dividends beyond Q1 2019 have not yet been approved or declared by the Board of Directors. Management’s expectations with respect to future dividends or annualized dividends are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws. Investors are cautioned that such statements with respect to future dividends are non-binding. The declaration and payment of future dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be determined based on Newmont’s financial results, balance sheet strength, cash and liquidity requirements, future prospects, gold and commodity prices, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. The Board of Directors reserves all powers related to the declaration and payment of dividends. Consequently, in determining the dividend to be declared and paid on the common stock of the Company, the Board of Directors may revise or terminate the payment level at any time without prior notice. As a result, investors should not place undue reliance on such statements.
iv IRR targets on projects are calculated using an assumed $1,200 gold price.
 
3