EX-99.1
4
tm2012943d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1 

 

 

 

Newmont
Closes Senior Notes Offering of $1 Billion at 2.250%

 

DENVER, March 18, 2020 — Newmont Corporation (NYSE: NEM,
TSX: NGT) (Newmont or the Company) announced today that it has received aggregate net proceeds
of approximately $985 million, after deducting underwriting discounts (before expenses), upon the closing of its registered public
offering of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.250% Senior Notes due 2030.

 

“The success of our one billion dollar debt offering and
the positive response from bondholders is a result of the confidence in our capital discipline and the strength of our business
over the long term,” said Tom Palmer, President and Chief Executive Officer. “The lower-cost capital we raised will
be used to partially refinance outstanding notes coming due in 2022 and 2023, lowering our effective interest rate and extending
our maturity profile.”

 

The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and
rank equally with the Company’s existing and future unsecured senior debt and senior to the Company’s future subordinated
debt. The Notes are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company’s subsidiary, Newmont USA Limited.

 

The Company intends to use the net proceeds of this offering,
supplemented with cash from its balance sheet, as necessary, for the repurchase of (i) the Company’s outstanding 3.500% senior
notes due 2022, (ii) the Company’s outstanding 3.700% notes due 2023 and (iii) outstanding 3.700% notes due 2023 issued by
the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Goldcorp Inc., for up to certain aggregate maximum principal tender amounts specified
in a related offer to purchase, which are accepted for purchase, and the payment of all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and
any remaining portion for working capital and other general corporate purposes.

 

BMO Capital Markets Corp., Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC acted as joint book-running managers for the offering.

 

This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of any of the securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer,
solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
The securities being offered have not been approved or disapproved by any regulatory authority, nor has any such authority passed
upon the accuracy or adequacy of the prospectus supplement or the shelf registration statement or prospectus.

 

Copies of the preliminary prospectus
supplement and accompanying prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, may be
obtained from BMO Capital Markets Corp. by calling toll-free at (866) 864-7760, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC by calling toll-free
at (866) 471-2526, or J.P. Morgan Securities LLC by calling collect at (212) 834-4533. An electronic copy may also be obtained
at www.sec.gov. 

 

About Newmont

 

Newmont is the world’s leading gold company and a
producer of copper, silver, zinc and lead. The Company’s world-class portfolio of assets, prospects and talent is
anchored in favorable mining jurisdictions in North America, South America, Australia and Africa. Newmont is the only gold
producer listed in the S&P 500 Index and is widely recognized for its principled environmental, social and governance
practices. The Company is an industry leader in value creation, supported by robust safety standards, superior execution and
technical proficiency. Newmont was founded in 1921 and has been publicly traded since 1925.

 

###

 

 NEWMONT
 Closes DEBT OFFERING

 1

 

 
 
 

 

Media Contact

 Omar
 Jabara
 303-837-5114
 omar.jabara@newmont.com

 

Investor Contact

 Jessica Largent
 303-837-5484
 jessica.largent@newmont.com

 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:

 

This press release contains
 “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections
and other applicable laws. Where a forward-looking statement expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events
or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, such statements
are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual events or results to differ materially from future
events or results expressed, projected or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements often address our
expected future business, financial performance and financial condition and often contain words such as “anticipate,”
 “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “would,” “estimate,” “expect,”
 “believe,” “target,” “indicative,” “preliminary,” or “potential.” Such
forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements regarding the expected use of proceeds from the offering.
Estimates or expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. Such
assumptions include, without limitation: (i) there being no significant change to current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological
and other physical conditions; (ii) permitting, development, operations and expansion of operations and projects being consistent
with current expectations and mine plans, including, without limitation, receipt of export approvals; (iii) political developments
in any jurisdiction in which Newmont operates being consistent with its current expectations; (iv) certain exchange rate assumptions
being approximately consistent with current levels; (v) certain price assumptions for gold, copper, silver, zinc, lead and oil;
(vi) prices for key supplies being approximately consistent with current levels; (vii) the accuracy of current mineral reserve
and mineralized material estimates; (viii) other planning assumptions, and (ix) the timely satisfaction of closing conditions and
receipt of approvals in connection with pending divestitures.. For a more detailed discussion of risks and other factors that might
impact future looking statements, see Newmont’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), under the heading “Risk Factors” available on
the SEC website or www.newmont.com. Newmont does not undertake any obligation to release
publicly revisions to any “forward-looking statement,” including, without limitation, outlook, to reflect events or
circumstances after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required
under applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that any lack of update to a previously issued “forward-looking
statement” constitutes a reaffirmation of that statement. Continued reliance on “forward-looking statements”
is at investors’ own risk.

 

 NEWMONT
 Closes DEBT OFFERING

 2