EX-99.1
2
tm2314601d5_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

Newmont
Announces Date of Special Meeting of Stockholders and Filing of Definitive Proxy Statement for Acquisition of Newcrest

 

Federal
Court of Australia Orders Convening of Scheme Meeting and Dispatch of Scheme Booklet

 

DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Newmont
Corporation (NYSE: NEM, TSX: NGT) has announced a special meeting of stockholders and the filing of its definitive proxy statement
in connection with the Company’s proposed acquisition of Newcrest Mining Limited (ASX, TSX, PNGX: NCM) by way
of a Scheme of Arrangement (“Scheme”). Newmont notified stockholders that the meeting will take place virtually on Wednesday,
October 11, 2023, at 8:00 a.m. Mountain Daylight Time.

 

Newmont stockholders will be
asked to vote on, among other proposals, the issuance of shares of Newmont common stock in connection with the Scheme. Newmont’s
Board of Directors unanimously recommends that Newmont stockholders vote in favor of each of the proposals that are included in the definitive
proxy statement.

 

Newcrest also announced that the Federal
Court of Australia has made orders:

 

·That
 Newcrest convene a meeting of Newcrest shareholders to consider and vote on the Scheme (“Scheme
 Meeting”); and

 

·Approving
 the dispatch of an explanatory statement providing information about the Scheme, together
 with the notice of Scheme Meeting (together, the “Scheme Booklet”), to Newcrest
 shareholders.

 

Newcrest’s shareholder
vote will be held in person and online on Friday, October 13, 2023, at 10:30 a.m. Australian Eastern Daylight Time.

 

“Once approved, Newmont
and Newcrest shareholders will own an unmatched portfolio of gold and copper assets, including 10 Tier 1 operations, each with the scale,
mine life and cost profile to sustain profitable production and best-in-class sustainability performance decades into the future,”
said Tom Palmer, Newmont’s President and Chief Executive Officer.

 

On May 14, Newmont announced its definitive agreement to acquire Newcrest. The combination would create a world-class portfolio of assets with the highest concentration
of Tier 1 operations, primarily in favorable, low-risk mining jurisdictions. Upon closing of the transaction, the combined company would
deliver a multi-decade production profile from 10 large, long-life, low cost, Tier 1 operations, and increased annual copper production
primarily from Australia and Canada. The combined business is anticipated to generate annual pre-tax synergies of $500 million, expected
to be achieved within the first 24 months, while also targeting at least $2 billion in cash improvements through portfolio optimization
in the first two years after closing.1

 

 

1 See cautionary statement
for additional information.

 

 Page 1 of 4
 
 

 

 

 

###

 

About Newmont

 

Newmont is the world’s
leading gold company and a producer of copper, silver, zinc and lead. The Company’s world-class portfolio of assets, prospects
and talent is anchored in favorable mining jurisdictions in North America, South America, Australia and Africa. Newmont is the only gold
producer listed in the S&P 500 Index and is widely recognized for its principled environmental, social and governance practices.
The Company is an industry leader in value creation, supported by robust safety standards, superior execution and technical expertise.
Newmont was founded in 1921 and has been publicly traded since 1925.

 

At Newmont,
our purpose is to create value and improve lives through sustainable and responsible mining. To learn more about
Newmont’s sustainability strategy and initiatives, go to www.newmont.com.

 

Media Contact 

Omar Jabara

720.212.9651 

omar.jabara@newmont.com

 

Investor Contact 

Daniel Horton

303.837.5468 

daniel.horton@newmont.com

 

Additional Information about the
Transaction and Where to Find It

 

This
communication is not an offer to purchase or exchange, nor a solicitation of an offer to sell securities of Newmont Corporation
(“Newmont”) or Newcrest Mining Limited (“Newcrest”) nor the solicitation of any vote or approval in any
jurisdiction nor shall there be any such issuance or transfer of securities of Newmont or Newcrest in any jurisdiction in
contravention of applicable law. This communication is being made in respect of the transaction involving Newmont and Newcrest
pursuant to the terms of a scheme implementation deed dated May 15, 2023, as amended by a letter dated September 4, 2023 (the
“Scheme Implementation Deed”) by and among Newmont, Newmont Overseas Holdings Pty Ltd, an Australian proprietary company
limited by shares, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont, and Newcrest and may be deemed to be soliciting material relating
to the transaction. In furtherance of the pending transaction and subject to future developments, Newmont filed a definitive proxy
statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on September 5, 2023 and may file other documents with
the SEC. This communication is not a substitute for the proxy statement, the scheme booklet or other document Newmont or Newcrest
has filed or may file with the SEC or Australian regulators in connection with the pending transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY
HOLDERS OF NEWMONT AND NEWCREST ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT, SCHEME BOOKLET AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC
CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING OR INVESTMENT DECISION WITH RESPECT TO THE TRANSACTION AS THEY DO AND WILL
CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PENDING TRANSACTION AND THE PARTIES TO THE TRANSACTION. The definitive proxy statement will
be mailed to Newmont stockholders. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement, the filings with
the SEC that were or will be incorporated by reference into the proxy statement and other documents containing important information
about the transaction and the parties to the transaction, filed by Newmont with the SEC at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
The disclosure documents and other documents that are filed with the SEC by Newmont may also be obtained on
https://www.newmont.com/investors/reports-and-filings/default.aspx or by contacting Newmont’s Investor Relations department at
Daniel.Horton@newmont.com or by calling 303-837-5484.

 

 Page 2 of 4
 
 

 

 

 

Participants in the Transaction Solicitation

 

Newmont,
Newcrest and certain of their respective directors and executive officers and other employees may be deemed to be participants in
any solicitation of proxies from Newmont shareholders in respect of the pending transaction between Newmont and Newcrest.
Information regarding Newmont’s directors and executive officers is available in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2023, as updated by the current report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC
on July 20, 2023, and its proxy statement for its 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 10,
2023. Information about Newcrest’s directors and executive officers is set forth in Newcrest’s latest annual financial
report dated August 11, 2023, as updated from time to time via announcements made by Newcrest on the Australian Securities Exchange
(“ASX”). Additional information regarding the interests of these participants in such proxy solicitation and a
description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, are contained in the definitive proxy
statement filed with the SEC on September 5, 2023 and other relevant materials that have been or will be filed with the SEC in
connection with the pending transaction.

 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements

 

This
communication contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor
created by such sections and other applicable laws and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable
Australian securities laws. Where a forward-looking statement expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or
results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, such statements are
subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results
expressed, projected or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements often address our expected future
business and financial performance and financial condition; and often contain words such as “anticipate,”
“intend,” “plan,” “will,” “would,” “estimate,” “expect,”
“pending,” “proposed” or “potential.” Forward-looking statements may include, without
limitation, statements relating to (i) the pending transaction to acquire the share capital of Newcrest, timing and closing of the
pending transaction, including receipt of required approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions; (ii) estimates
of expected synergies; (iii) estimates of expected incremental cash flow generation and portfolio optimization opportunities; and
(iv) other expectations regarding the combined business.

 

Estimates or
expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. Risks relating to
forward looking statements in regard to the combined business and future performance may include, but are not limited to, gold and
other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, operational risks, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or
recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political risk, community relations, conflict resolution, governmental regulation
and judicial outcomes and other risks. In addition, material risks that could cause actual results to differ from forward-looking
statements include: the inherent uncertainty associated with financial or other projections; the prompt and effective integration of
Newmont’s and Newcrest’s businesses and the ability to achieve the anticipated synergies and value-creation contemplated
by the pending transaction; the risk associated with Newmont’s and Newcrest’s ability to obtain the approval of the
pending transaction by their shareholders required to consummate the pending transaction and the timing of the closing of the
pending transaction, including the risk that the conditions to the pending transaction are not satisfied on a timely basis or at all
and the failure of the pending transaction to close for any other reason; the risk that a consent or authorization that may be
required for the pending transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; the outcome of
any legal proceedings that may be instituted against the parties and others related to the Scheme Implementation Deed; unanticipated
difficulties or expenditures relating to the pending transaction, the response of business partners and retention as a result
of the announcement and pendency of the transaction; risks relating to the value of the scheme consideration to be issued in
connection with the pending transaction; the anticipated size of the markets and continued demand for Newmont’s and
Newcrest’s resources and the impact of competitive responses to the announcement of the transaction; and the diversion of
management time on pending transaction-related issues. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see
Newmont’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2023, as updated
by the current report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on July 20, 2023, as well as Newmont’s other SEC filings, including the
definitive proxy statement, filed with the SEC on September 5, 2023, available on the SEC website or www.newmont.com.
Newcrest’s most recent annual financial report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 as well as Newcrest’s other
filings made with Australian securities regulatory authorities are available on ASX (www.asx.com.au)
or www.newcrest.com. Newmont and Newcrest do not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any
“forward-looking statement,” including, without limitation, outlook, to reflect events or circumstances after the date
of this communication, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities
laws. Investors should not assume that any lack of update to a previously issued “forward-looking statement” constitutes
a reaffirmation of that statement. Continued reliance on “forward-looking statements” is at investors’ own
risk.

 

 Page 3 of 4
 
 

 

 

 

Synergies and value
creation as used herein are management estimates provided for illustrative purposes and should not be considered a GAAP or non-GAAP financial
measure. Synergies represent management’s combined estimate of pre-tax synergies, supply chain efficiencies and Full Potential
improvements, as a result of the integration of Newmont’s and Newcrest’s businesses that have been monetized for the purposes
of the estimation. Because synergies estimates reflect differences between certain actual costs incurred and management estimates of
costs that would have been incurred in the absence of the integration of Newmont’s and Newcrest’s businesses, such estimates
are necessarily imprecise and are based on numerous judgments and assumptions. Synergies are “forward-looking statements”
subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual value creation to differ from expected or past synergies.

 

As used
herein, Tier 1 / World-class asset is defined as +500k GEO’s/year consolidated, average AISC/oz in the lower half of the
industry cost curve and a mine life >10 years in countries that, on average, are classified in the A and B rating ranges by Moody’s,
S&P or Fitch.

 

 Page 4 of 4