EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED APRIL 7, 2021

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

NexGen Announces Appointment of Harpreet
Dhaliwal as Chief Financial Officer

VANCOUVER, BC, April 7, 2021 /CNW/ - NexGen
Energy Ltd. ("NexGen" or the "Company") (TSX: NXE) (NYSE: NXE) is pleased to announce the appointment
of Harpreet Dhaliwal to the position of Chief Financial Officer.

Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer, commented:

"On behalf of the Board and entire
NexGen team, I would like to welcome Harpreet to the organization. Harpreet's experience in the mining industry in the CFO role
is well established and she joins NexGen at an exciting time in the Company's stage of development." 

Harpreet Dhaliwal, CPA

Harpreet Dhaliwal is a highly regarded and
accomplished financial executive with extensive experience in the resource sector. A graduate of The University of British
Columbia, Ms. Dhaliwal commenced her career at Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP before transitioning to the resource sector working
with Uranium One Inc., Endeavour Mining Corporation and Fiore Management & Advisory Group.

Most recently, Ms. Dhaliwal served as the Chief
Financial Officer at Leagold Mining. At Leagold, she was responsible for the design and implementation of financial reporting,
treasury and IT systems, working with operations and project teams on budgeting, forecasting, and presenting to analysts and boards
on financial matters for multiple producing mines. She has successfully completed numerous mergers and acquisitions supported by
debt and equity financings and led integrated lean and efficient finance teams.

About NexGen Energy Ltd.

NexGen is a British Columbia corporation with
a focus on developing the Rook I Project located in the south western Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan, Canada into production. NexGen
has a highly experienced team of uranium industry professionals with a successful track record in the discovery of uranium deposits
and in developing projects through discovery to production. NexGen also owns a portfolio of highly prospective uranium properties
in the south western Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan, Canada.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable United States securities laws and regulations and "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking information" includes,
but is not limited to, statements with respect to mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates, the 2021 Arrow Deposit, Rook
I Project and estimates of uranium production, grade and long-term average uranium prices, anticipated effects of completed drill
results on the Rook I Project, planned work programs, completion of further site investigations and engineering work to support
basic engineering of the project and expected outcomes. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can
be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
"scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes"
or the negative connotation thereof or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may",
"could", "would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved"
or the negative connotation thereof. Statements relating to "mineral resources" are deemed to be forward-looking
information, as they involve the implied assessment that, based on certain estimates and assumptions, the mineral resources described
can be profitably produced in the future.

Forward-looking information and statements
are based on the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry
and markets in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including
among others, that the mineral reserve and resources estimates and the key assumptions and parameters on which such estimates are
based are as set out in this news release and the technical report for the property , the results of planned exploration activities
are as anticipated, the price and market supply of uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be
available if and when needed and on reasonable terms, that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other
approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned exploration activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner
and that general business and economic conditions will not change in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by
the Company in providing forward looking information or making forward looking statements are considered reasonable by management
at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions will prove to be accurate in the future.

Forward-looking information and statements
also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements
of NexGen to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by
such forward-looking information or statements, including, among others, the existence of negative operating cash flow and dependence
on third party financing, uncertainty of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not
confirm previously announced preliminary results, conclusions of economic valuations, the risk that actual results of exploration
activities will be different than anticipated, the cost of labour, equipment or materials will increase more than expected, that
the future price of uranium will decline or otherwise not rise to an economic level, the appeal of alternate sources of energy
to uranium-produced energy, that the Canadian dollar will strengthen against the U.S. dollar, that mineral resources and reserves
are not as estimated, that actual costs or actual results of reclamation activities are greater than expected, that changes in
project parameters and plans continue to be refined and may result in increased costs, of unexpected variations in mineral resources
and reserves, grade or recovery rates or other risks generally associated with mining, unanticipated delays in obtaining governmental,
regulatory or First Nations approvals, risks related to First Nations title and consultation, reliance upon key management and
other personnel, deficiencies in the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to manage conflicts of interest,
failure to obtain or maintain required permits and licences, risks related to changes in laws, regulations, policy and public perception,
as well as those factors or other risks as more fully described in NexGen's Annual Information Form dated March 19, 2021 filed
with the securities commissions of all of the provinces of Canada except Quebec and in NexGen's 40-F filed with the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and Edgar at www.sec.gov. 

Although the Company has attempted to identify
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information
or statements or implied by forward-looking information or statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be
as anticipated, estimated or intended. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking information
or statements due to the inherent uncertainty thereof.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
information and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated,
estimated or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required
by applicable securities laws. 

View original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nexgen-announces-appointment-of-harpreet-dhaliwal-as-chief-financial-officer-301263652.html

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

 

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/April2021/07/c7201.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, lcuryer@nexgenenergy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca; Travis McPherson, Senior Vice President, Corporate
Development, NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, tmcpherson@nexgenenergy.ca, http://www.nexgenenergy.ca

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 06:30e 07-APR-21