EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED APRIL 18, 2023

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

NexGen Energy, in Partnership with Clearwater
River Dene Nation, Launches Member-Owned Business Slated to Create More than $36M in Revenue in its First Three Years

VANCOUVER, BC, April 18, 2023 /CNW/ - NexGen Energy
Ltd. ("NexGen" or the "Company") (TSX: NXE) (NYSE: NXE) (ASX: NXG) in partnership with the Clearwater River Dene
Nation ("CRDN") is pleased to announce the establishment of a 100% Indigenous owned and operated gravel supply company in Northwest
Saskatchewan. Continuing to deliver on its industry-leading Impact Benefit Agreement with the CRDN signed in March 2022, NexGen purchased
a $4.1M gravel crusher to provide aggregate material for its Rook I project ("Rook I" or the "Project") and to supply
the northern communities' aggregate material for road infrastructure requirements. The CRDN member-owned business will lease to own and
operate the gravel crusher. The aggregate supply for Rook I has a capital expenditure representing an estimated $36M in value (Rook I
Feasibility Study) to the new CRDN-owned business in just the first three years of construction of the Project. This new company will
immediately create sixteen (16) additional jobs for local community members.

Teddy Clark, Chief CRDN, commented: "The establishment
of the gravel supply company is a testament to NexGen's commitment to creating sustainable economic opportunities for Indigenous communities
in the local project area. This new business will give CRDN and Metis Local 39 members, as well as surrounding communities, meaningful
employment, which will stimulate the economy for all the communities in the local project area." 

Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer, commented:
"NexGen is proud to be expanding its support for our local community partners to maximise positive sustainable growth. This business
opportunity delivers three key initiatives, aggregate for roads and the foundations for Rook I permitted site works scheduled to commence
in summer 2023, much needed road aggregate repair for the communities in the wider local project area, and scalability and longevity to
provide positive outcomes for many people including training and employment. Further, it demonstrates NexGen's industry leading approach
to community advancement and engagement with local community partners, and confirms the Company's long-standing track record of maximizing
opportunities for its stakeholders."

The establishment of a gravel supply company in the
Northwest addresses the limited options and availability of crushing services in Northwest Saskatchewan. In addition to NexGen's Rook
I Project, which is currently advancing through the Provincial and Federal regulatory and licensing review process, this initiative will
produce the aggregate needed for other mining operations, Saskatchewan Highways, and construction operations across Northwest Saskatchewan.

 

Gravel Crushing TeleStacker Conveyer Stockpiling Aggregate
(CNW Group/NexGen Energy Ltd.)

About NexGen

NexGen Energy is a Canadian company focused on delivering
clean energy fuel for the future. The Company's flagship Rook I Project is being optimally developed into the largest low-cost producing
uranium mine globally, incorporating the most elite standards in environmental and social governance. The Rook I Project is supported
by a NI 43-101 compliant Feasibility Study which outlines the elite environmental performance and industry-leading economics. NexGen
is led by a team of experienced uranium and mining industry professionals with expertise across the entire mining life cycle, including
exploration, financing, project engineering and construction, operations and closure. NexGen is leveraging its proven experience
to deliver a Project that leads the entire mining industry socially, technically and environmentally. The Project and prospective portfolio
in northern Saskatchewan will provide generational long-term economic, environmental, and social benefits for Saskatchewan, Canada, and
the world.

NexGen is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the
New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "NXE," and on the Australian Securities Exchange under the ticker symbol "NXG,"
providing access to global investors to participate in NexGen's mission of solving three major global challenges in decarbonization, energy
security and access to power. The Company is headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, with its primary operations office in
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.

Technical Disclosure

All technical information in this news release
has been reviewed and approved by Kevin Small, NexGen's Senior Vice President, Engineering and Operations, a qualified person under
National Instrument 43-101.

A technical report in respect of the FS is filed
on SEDAR ( www.sedar.com ) and EDGAR (www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml ) and is available for review on NexGen Energy's website
(www.nexgenenergy.ca ).

Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors

This news release includes Mineral Reserves and
Mineral Resources classification terms that comply with reporting standards in Canada and the Mineral Reserves and the Mineral
Resources estimates are made in accordance with NI 43-101. NI 43-101 is a rule developed by the Canadian Securities Administrators that
establishes standards for all public disclosure an issuer makes of scientific and technical information concerning mineral projects. These
standards differ from the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") set by the SEC's rules that are applicable
to domestic United States reporting companies. Consequently, Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources information
included in this news release is not comparable to similar information that would generally be disclosed by domestic U.S. reporting companies
subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. Accordingly, information concerning mineral deposits set forth herein
may not be comparable with information made public by companies that report in accordance with U.S. standards.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of applicable United States securities laws and regulations and "forward-looking information"
within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking information" includes, but is not limited
to, statements with respect to mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates, the 2021 Arrow Deposit, Rook I Project and estimates of
uranium production, grade and long-term average uranium prices, anticipated effects of completed drill results on the Rook I Project,
planned work programs, completion of further site investigations and engineering work to support basic engineering of the project and
expected outcomes. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can be identified by the use of words such as
"plans", "expects", "is expected ", "budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negative connotation thereof or variations of such words
and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might"
or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved" or the negative connotation thereof. Statements relating
to "mineral resources" are deemed to be forward-looking information, as they involve the implied assessment that, based on certain
estimates and assumptions, the mineral resources described can be profitably produced in the future.

Forward-looking information and statements are
based on the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry and markets
in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including among others, that
the mineral reserve and resources estimates and the key assumptions and parameters on which such estimates are based are as set out in
this news release and the technical report for the property, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated, the price
and market supply of uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable
terms, that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned exploration
activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions will not change
in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward-looking information or making forward-looking
statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions will prove to be accurate
in the future.

Forward-looking information and statements also
involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements of
NexGen to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by such forward-looking
information or statements, including, among others, the existence of negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party financing,
uncertainty of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously announced preliminary
results, conclusions of economic valuations, the risk that actual results of exploration activities will be different than anticipated,
the cost of labour, equipment or materials will increase more than expected, that the future price of uranium will decline or otherwise
not rise to an economic level, the appeal of alternate sources of energy to uranium-produced energy, that the Canadian dollar will strengthen
against the U.S. dollar, that mineral resources and reserves are not as estimated, that actual costs or actual results of reclamation
activities are greater than expected, that changes in project parameters and plans continue to be refined and may result in increased
costs, of unexpected variations in mineral resources and reserves, grade or recovery rates or other risks generally associated with mining,
unanticipated delays in obtaining governmental, regulatory or First Nations approvals, risks related to First Nations title and consultation,
reliance upon key management and other personnel, deficiencies in the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to
manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain or maintain required permits and licences, risks related to changes in laws, regulations,
policy and public perception, as well as those factors or other risks as more fully described in NexGen's Annual Information Form dated 
February 25, 2022 filed with the securities commissions of all of the provinces of Canada except Quebec and in NexGen's
40-F filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and Edgar
at www.sec.gov .

Although the Company has attempted to identify
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information or statements
or implied by forward-looking information or statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated
or intended. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking information or statements due to the inherent
uncertainty thereof.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
information and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated,
estimated or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required
by applicable securities laws.

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nexgen-energy-in-partnership-with-clearwater-river-dene-nation-launches-member-owned-business-slated-to-create-more-than-36m-in-revenue-in-its-first-three-years-301800131.html

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

 

View original content to download multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/April2023/18/c1761.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer, NexGen
Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, lcuryer@nexgenenergy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca; Travis McPherson, Chief Commercial Officer, NexGen Energy
Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, tmcpherson@nexgenenergy.ca, http://www.nexgenenergy.ca; Monica Kras, VP, Corporate Development, NexGen Energy Ltd.,
+44 7307 191933, mkras@nxe-energy.ca, http://www.nexgenenergy.ca

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 06:30e 18-APR-23