EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED AUGUST 26, 2019

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

NexGen Commences Maiden Exploration Drilling
on Prospective SW1 Property

VANCOUVER, Aug. 26, 2019 /CNW/ - NexGen
Energy Ltd. ("NexGen" or the "Company") (TSX: NXE, NYSE MKT: NXE) is pleased to announce that an exploration
drill program consisting of a minimum 4,000 m is scheduled to begin in early September at our 100% owned, SW1 property (approximately
10 km northwest of Rook I), in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan.

SW1 Overview

Since the acquisition by NexGen of the SW1
property (the "Property") in 2012, NexGen has systematically developed the property through testing with numerous studies
and geophysical surveys. The resulting geophysical signature on the Property, particularly the Gartner Lake Corridor ("GLC"),
displays strong similarities to the Rook I property (Figure 1) which hosts Arrow, Canada's largest to-be developed uranium deposit
currently in the Environmental Assessment process. Those similar characteristics include a strong conductive signature with
numerous off-sets coincident with discrete gravity lows and steep magnetic gradients (Figure 2, Figure 3). Analysis of historic
drilling has also revealed prospective structure and alteration that coincides with highly-favourable geophysical properties for
potential uranium mineralization.

Geophysical History

The Property is situated on the western limb
of a regional fold structure with the Patterson Lake Uranium Corridor and the Arrow Deposit situated on the eastern limb (Figure
1). Historical drill core from the Property show that the area contains similar host rocks as the Arrow Deposit. Given this geological
affiliation, NexGen commissioned the same airborne geophysical techniques that led to the discovery of the Arrow Deposit in February
2014. A VTEM survey defined several discrete and disjointed conductive corridors on the Property, similar to what was seen at Arrow.
Follow-up ZTEM surveys were conducted in conjunction with HeliFalcon gravity gradiometry surveys over the entire Property. These
surveys defined additional corridors and numerous gravity anomalies, several of which are coincident with the dislocation of the
conductors (Figure 4), similar to the Arrow Deposit (Figure 4). The development of the Property has led to high-confidence targets
that are prime for focused exploration through drilling.

Drill Program

Exploration drilling with a minimum of 4,000
m, utilizing 2 drill rigs, will commence imminently on the Property. The program is designed to test the highest-priority
anomalies, analogous to those at the Arrow Deposit, for uranium mineralization that has been highlighted by geophysical surveys
and the analysis of historic drilling.

Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer, commented:
"We look forward to the SW1 maiden drill program commencing after completing an extensive geophysical analysis of the area
over the past 5 years. NexGen's portfolio is host to Arrow and an extensive list of high priority targets generated through
the team's extensive use of multiple geophysical surveys and objective approach to exploration. The SW1 program is being led by
a sub exploration team as results from the 2019 Phase I Arrow drilling programs are analyzed and incorporated into the Feasibility
Study and Environmental Assessment studies."

Troy Boisjoli, Vice-President, Operations and
Project Development, commented: "The 2019 SW1 exploration drill program is the culmination of extensive detailed work by the
NexGen team for the development of the SW1 property – a methodical build of focused work and high-level interpretation that
is akin the strategy that led to the discovery of the Arrow Deposit in February 2014. We are looking forward to the opportunity
to drill test targets with analogous geophysical signatures to Arrow and excited about this next stage of exploration on the SW1
property."

 

Figure 1: SW1 Property and Rook I Property
with Similar Geophysical Signatures (CNW Group/NexGen Energy Ltd.)

Figure 2: SW1 Property with Identified Target
Areas (CNW Group/NexGen Energy Ltd.)

Figure 3: SW1 Property with Conductive Corridors
Analogous to Rook I (CNW Group/NexGen Energy Ltd.)

Figure 4: SW1 Target Areas with Gravity Anomalies
Coincident with EM Conductor Breaks (CNW Group/NexGen Energy Ltd.)

About NexGen

NexGen is a British Columbia corporation
with a focus on the acquisition, exploration and development of Canadian uranium projects. NexGen has a highly experienced team
of uranium industry professionals with a successful track record in the discovery of uranium deposits and in developing projects
through discovery to production. 

NexGen owns a portfolio of prospective uranium
exploration assets in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan, Canada; including a 100% interest in Rook I, location of the Arrow Deposit
discovered in February 2014. NexGen is the recipient of the PDAC's 2018 Bill Dennis Award and the 2019 Environmental and Social
Responsibility Award.

Technical Disclosure

The technical information in this news release
with respect to the PFS has been reviewed and approved by Paul O'Hara, P.Eng. of Wood., David Robson, P.Eng., M.B.A., and Jason
Cox, P.Eng. of RPA, each of whom is a "qualified person" under National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure
for Mineral Projects ("NI-43-101").

The Mineral Resource Estimate was completed
by Mr. Mark Mathisen, C.P.G., Senior Geologist at RPA and Mr. David Ross, P.Geo., Director of Resource Estimation and Principal
Geologist at RPA. Both are independent Qualified Persons in accordance with the requirements of National Instrument (NI)
43-101 and they have approved the disclosure herein. All other technical information in this news release has been approved by
Mr. Troy Boisjoli, Geoscientist Licensee, Vice President – Operations & Project Development for NexGen. Mr. Boisjoli
is a qualified person for the purposes of NI 43-101 and has verified the sampling, analytical, and test data underlying the information
or opinions contained herein by reviewing original data certificates and monitoring all of the data collection protocols. All
other technical information in this news release has been approved by Mr. James Hatley, a Professional Engineer, Senior Vice-President
– Project Development for NexGen. Mr. Hatley is a qualified person for the purposes of NI 43-101 and has reviewed the
underlying the information or opinions contained herein on mine design.

A technical report in respect to the PFS is
filed on SEDAR (www.sedar.com) and EDGAR (www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml) and is available for review on NexGen Energy's website (www.nexgenenergy.ca).

SEC Standards

Estimates of mineralization and other technical
information included or referenced in this news release have been prepared in accordance with NI 43-101. The definitions of proven
and probable mineral reserves used in NI 43-101 differ from the definitions in SEC Industry Guide 7. Under SEC Industry Guide 7
standards, a "final" or "bankable" feasibility study is required to report reserves, the three-year historical
average price is used in any reserve or cash flow analysis to designate reserves and the primary environmental analysis or report
must be filed with the appropriate governmental authority. As a result, the reserves reported by the Company in accordance with
NI 43-101 may not qualify as "reserves" under SEC standards. In addition, the terms "mineral resource", "measured
mineral resource", "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource" are defined in and required
to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under SEC Industry Guide 7 and normally are not permitted
to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have
demonstrated economic viability. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories
will ever be converted into reserves. "Inferred mineral resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence,
and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral
resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian securities laws, estimates of inferred mineral resources may
not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Additionally, disclosure of "contained
pounds" in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian securities laws; however, the SEC normally only permits issuers
to report mineralization that does not constitute "reserves" by SEC standards as in place tonnage and grade without reference
to unit measurements. Accordingly, information contained or referenced in this news release containing descriptions of the Company's
mineral deposits may not be comparable to similar information made public by U.S. companies subject to the reporting and disclosure
requirements of United States federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.

Technical Information

For details of the Rook I Project including
the quality assurance program and quality control measures applied and key assumptions, parameters and methods used to estimate
the Mineral Resource please refer to the technical report entitled "Arrow Deposit, Rook I Project Saskatchewan NI 43-101 Technical
Report on Pre-feasbility Study" dated effective 5 November, 2018 (the "Rook 1 Technical Report") prepared by Paul
O'Hara, P.Eng., Jason J. Cox, P.Eng., David M. Robson, P.Eng., M.B.A., Mark B. Mathisen, C.P.G. each of whom is a "qualified
person" under NI 43-101. The Rook I Technical Report is available for review under the Company's profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com
and EDGAR (www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml) providing details of the Rook I Project including the quality assurance program and quality
control measures applied and key assumptions, parameters and methods used to estimate the Mineral Resource and is available on
NexGen Energy's website (www.nexgenenergy.ca).

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
and "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking
information" includes, but is not limited to, statements with respect to the activities, events or developments that the Company
expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can
be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
"scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes"
or the negative connotation thereof or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may",
"could", "would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved"
or the negative connotation thereof.

Forward-looking information and statements
are based on the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry
and markets in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including
among others, that the proposed transaction will be completed, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated,
the price of uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable
terms, that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned
exploration activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions
will not change in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward looking information
or making forward looking statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions
will prove to be accurate.

Forward-looking information and statements
also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements
of NexGen to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by
such forward-looking information or statements, including, among others, negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party
financing, uncertainty of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously
announced preliminary results, imprecision of mineral resource estimates, the appeal of alternate sources of energy and sustained
low uranium prices, aboriginal title and consultation issues, exploration risks, reliance upon key management and other personnel,
deficiencies in the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain
or maintain required permits and licenses, changes in laws, regulations and policy, competition for resources and financing, and
other factors discussed or referred to in the Company's Annual Information Form dated March 4, 2019 under "Risk Factors".

Although the Company has attempted to identify
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information
or implied by forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
information and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated,
estimated or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required
by applicable securities laws. 

View original content to download multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nexgen-commences-maiden-exploration-drilling-on-prospective-sw1-property-300906702.html

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

 

View original content to download multimedia:
http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/August2019/26/c6020.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: Contact Information: Leigh Curyer,
Chief Executive Officer, NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, lcuryer@nexgenenergy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca; Travis McPherson, Vice
President Corporate Development, NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, tmcpherson@nexgenenergy.ca, http://www.nexgenenergy.ca

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 06:30e 26-AUG-19