EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED JULY 27, 2017

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

NexGen Makes New Discovery 400 m South of Arrow

VANCOUVER, July 27, 2017 /CNW/ - NexGen Energy Ltd. ("NexGen"
or the "Company") (TSX:NXE, NYSE:NXE) is pleased to report a new uranium discovery during our on-going
summer drilling program on our 100% owned, Rook I property, Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan. 

The first two exploration holes of the summer drill
program have resulted in the discovery of a new zone of off-scale radioactivity approximately 400 m south of the Arrow
Deposit. This new area of mineralization has been named the South Arrow Discovery and is located on an Arrow-parallel
structure that remains almost completely undrilled.

The Arrow South Discovery is currently defined by the local
occurrence of narrow massive pitchblende veining measuring >61,000 cps. The South Arrow Discovery has been tested
with only two holes and both intersected narrow intervals of off-scale radioactivity within a large and robust envelope
of highly prospective hydrothermal alteration. South Arrow remains open in all directions.

Arrow South Discovery Characteristics:

·Highly Radioactive – Mineralization is
locally very strong observed as dense massive pitchblende veins. Intermittent anomalous uranium-sourced radioactivity occurs over
core lengths of up to 400 m, which supports that a large and robust uraniferous alteration system is present at South Arrow.

·Multiple lenses – Preliminary interpretations
at South Arrow suggest that steeply southeast dipping mineralization occurs within at least three stacked high strain or sheared
intervals, which is a common characteristic of the Arrow Deposit. 

·Extensive Alteration – Similarly to Arrow,
the hydrothermal alteration is widespread, which suggests a strong mineralizing event has occurred. Dravite and illite breccias
are observed at the Arrow Deposit and the South Arrow zone. 

Drill Intercept Highlights:

·Discovery hole AR-17-151c1 intersected 7.0
m of total composite mineralization including 0.45 m of off-scale radioactivity (>10,000 to >61,000 cps) marked by
narrow massive pitchblende veining. 

·Follow-up hole AR-17-151c2 which targeted mineralization
25 m down-dip from the discovery hole, intersected 7.0 m of total composite mineralization including 0.2 m of off-scale
radioactivity (>10,000 cps to 20,000 cps). 

·South Arrow was targeted as a follow up to the mineralization
and extensive hydrothermal alteration intersected in holes AR-17-150 and -150w1 (previously referred to as RK-17-118 and
-118w1, respectively – see news release dated June 7, 2017). 

Arrow, Activities & Financial

·A seven-rig summer development and exploration program
comprising a minimum of 25,000 m of drilling and multiple pre-feasibility staged technical studies is underway. 

·A maiden Preliminary Economic Assessment is imminently
scheduled. 

·The Company has cash on hand of approximately $200
million.

A map showing drill hole locations is shown in Figure 1. An
isometric view of the Arrow and South Arrow 3D resistivity anomalies is shown in Figure 2.

Garrett Ainsworth, Vice-President, Exploration and Development,
commented: "The discovery of South Arrow is the result of a disciplined process by the team where multiple geophysical datasets
were integrated to prioritize exploration targets. The ground 3D resistivity survey conducted by Dias Geophysical was key
in elevating South Arrow as a high priority target that has now returned off-scale radioactivity associated with a large and robust
alteration system. The alteration package is similar to that which accompanies the Arrow Deposit, and includes favourable
dravite/illite/sudoite clays as pervasive and replacement, pervasive strong hematite, and intense silicification that includes
radiation damaged quartz." 

Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer, commented: "This
is a very exciting time for the Company with the release of the maiden PEA imminent and today's drill results strongly indicating
Arrow is still very much in its infancy in terms of exploration work conducted. As a consequence, additional drilling focus
will be immediately directed to Arrow South whilst continuing to focus on high value targets in and around Arrow together with
the engineering and environmental studies.

I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the entire
NexGen team on another outstanding development for the Company and its shareholders."

The Arrow South Discovery occurs within an Arrow-parallel
deformation zone first identified by re-processing of airborne VTEM survey data by Condor Consulting. Recently, a high-resolution
ground 3D resistivity/IP survey was completed by Dias Geophysical over an area covering the Arrow Deposit and a portion of the
newly identified structure. The survey showed a resistivity anomaly highly coincident with and immediately flanking the Arrow Deposit.
The survey also identified an additional anomaly coincident with the Arrow-parallel deformation zone first highlighted by the VTEM
data. This new resistivity anomaly, named the South Arrow anomaly, has strikingly similar characteristics to the Arrow anomaly.
It has now been tested in four holes, two of which have intersected off-scale radioactivity and all of which intersected extensive
zones of hydrothermal alteration and anomalous radioactivity. Preliminary interpretations from structural measurements collected
from oriented drill core suggest that the South Arrow mineralized bodies strike towards the southwest and dip steeply towards the
southeast.

Table 1: South Arrow Discovery Drill Hole Data

 Drill Hole
 
 Athabasca 
 Group - 
 Basement 
 Unconformity 
 Depth (m)
 Handheld Scintillometer Results (RS-120)

 Hole ID
 Azimuth
 Dip
 
 Total 
 Depth 
 (m)
 From (m)
 To (m)
 Width (m)
 CPS Range

 AR-17-151c1
 327
 -70
 588.50
 103.30
 262.5
 263.5
 1.0
 <500 - 2100

 302.0
 308.0
 6.0
 <500 - >61000

 AR-17-151c2
 327
 -70
 561.50
 103.30
 310.5
 312.5
 2.0
 <500 - 20000

 327.5
 328.0
 0.5
 <500 - 1400

 359.5
 363.5
 4.0
 <500 - 3700

 404.5
 405.0
 0.5
 <500 - 510

Parameters:

·Maximum internal dilution 2.00 m downhole 

·All depths and intervals are meters downhole, true
thicknesses are yet to be determined. 

·"Anomalous" means >500 cps (counts per
second) total count gamma readings by gamma scintillometer type RS-120 

·"Off-scale" means >10,000 cps (counts
per second) total count gamma readings by gamma scintillometer type RS-120 

·Where "Min cps" is <500 cps, this refers
to local low radiometric zones within the overall radioactive interval

South Arrow Drilling

AR-17-151c1

Hole AR-17-151c1 was a directional hole collared from surface
at an angled orientation (-70°) to the northwest (327° azimuth). It was designed to test the South Arrow resistivity anomaly
75 m along strike to the southwest of holes AR-17-150 (formerly RK-17-118) and AR-17-150w1 (formerly RK-17-118w1). The hole intersected
Athabasca Group sandstones between 99.4 m and the unconformity at 103.3 m. Basement lithologies consisted of semi-pelitic
gneiss and orthogneiss of variable composition. Several broad deformation zones were encountered throughout. Extensive zones of
hydrothermal alteration were also intersected which generally consist of replacement- and hydrothermal breccia-style clay, chlorite
and silicification. The hole intersected visible disseminated, fracture-hosted and vein-style pitchblende mineralization in close
association with deformation and hydrothermal alteration. A total composite mineralization of 7.0 m including 0.45 m of off-scale
radioactivity (>10,000 to >61,000 cps) was intersected within a 45.5 m section (262.5 to 308.0 m) before the hole was terminated
at 588.5 m. 

AR-17-151c2

Hole AR-17-151c2 was a directional hole that departed pilot
hole AR-17-151c1 at 202 m. It was designed to test the South Arrow resistivity anomaly 25 m down-dip from the mineralization intersected
in AR-17-151c1. Basement lithologies were intersected from the top of the hole that included semi-pelitic gneiss and orthogneiss
of variable composition. Several broad deformation zones were encountered throughout. Extensive zones of hydrothermal alteration
were also intersected which generally consisted of replacement- and hydrothermal breccia-style clay, chlorite and silicification.
The hole intersected visible disseminated, fracture-hosted and worm-rock style pitchblende mineralization in close association
with deformation and hydrothermal alteration. A total composite mineralization of 7.0 m including 0.20 m of off-scale radioactivity
(>10,000 to 20,000 cps) was intersected within a 94.5 m section (310.5 to 405.0m) before the hole was terminated at 561.5 m.

About NexGen 

NexGen is a British Columbia corporation with a focus on the
acquisition, exploration and development of Canadian uranium projects. NexGen has a highly experienced team of uranium industry
professionals with a successful track record in the discovery of uranium deposits and in developing projects through discovery
to production.

NexGen owns a portfolio of highly prospective uranium exploration
assets in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan, Canada, including a 100% interest in Rook I, location of the Arrow Discovery in February
2014 and Bow Discovery in March 2015 and the Harpoon discovery in August 2016. The Arrow Deposit's second resource estimate, released
only three years after the first discovery of mineralization, is 179.5 M lbs U3O8 contained in 1.18 M tonnes grading 6.88% U3O8
in the indicated category and an additional 122.1 M lbs U3O8 contained in 4.25 M tonnes grading 1.30% U3O8 in the inferred category.

Technical Information 

Natural gamma radiation in drill core reported in this news
release was measured in counts per second (cps) using a Radiation Solutions Inc. RS-120 gamma-ray scintillometer. The reader is
cautioned that total count gamma readings may not be directly or uniformly related to uranium grades of the rock sample measured;
they should be used only as a preliminary indication of the presence of radioactive minerals.

Split core samples will be taken systematically, and intervals
will be submitted to SRC Geoanalytical Laboratories (an SCC ISO/IEC 17025: 2005 Accredited Facility) of Saskatoon for analysis.
All samples sent to SRC will be analyzed using ICP-MS for trace elements on partial and total digestions, ICP-OES for major and
minor elements on a total digestion, and fusion solution of boron by ICP-OES. Mineralized samples are analyzed for U3O8
by ICP-OES and select samples for gold by fire assay. Assay results will be released when received and after stringent internal
QA/QC protocols are passed.

All scientific and technical information in this news release
has been prepared by or reviewed and approved by Mr. Garrett Ainsworth, P.Geo., Vice President – Exploration & Development
for NexGen. Mr. Ainsworth is a qualified person for the purposes of National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects ("NI 43-101"), and has verified the sampling, analytical, and test data underlying the information or opinions
contained herein by reviewing original data certificates and monitoring all of the data collection protocols. For details of the
Rook I Project including the quality assurance program and quality control measures applied and key assumptions, parameters and
methods used to estimate the mineral resource set forth below please refer to the technical report entitled "Technical Report
on the Rook 1 Property, Saskatchewan, Canada" dated effective March 31, 2017 (the "Rook 1 Technical Report") prepared
by Mark B. Mathisen and David Ross, each of whom is a "qualified person" under NI 43-101. The Rook I Technical Report
is available for review under the Company's profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. All intersections are downhole, true thicknesses
are yet to be determined.

U.S. investors are advised that while the terms "indicated
resources" and "inferred resources" are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission does not recognize these terms. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the material
in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking information" includes,
but is not limited to, statements with respect to the activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates
will or may occur in the future, including, without limitation, the completion of the technical report in support of the PEA. Generally,
but not always, forward-looking information and statements can be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects",
"is expected", "budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends",
"anticipates", or "believes" or the negative connotation thereof or variations of such words and phrases or
state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or "will
be taken", "occur" or "be achieved" or the negative connotation thereof.

Forward-looking information and statements are based on
the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry and markets
in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including among others,
that the proposed transaction will be completed, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated, the price of
uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable terms,
that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned exploration
activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions will
not change in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward looking information
or making forward looking statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions
will prove to be accurate.

Forward-looking information and statements also involve
known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements of NexGen
to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by such forward-looking
information or statements, including, among others, negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party financing, uncertainty
of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously announced preliminary
results, imprecision of mineral resource estimates, the appeal of alternate sources of energy and sustained low uranium prices,
aboriginal title and consultation issues, exploration risks, reliance upon key management and other personnel, deficiencies in
the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain or maintain
required permits and licenses, changes in laws, regulations and policy, competition for resources and financing, specific risks
relating to the negotiation and execution of the definitive agreements for the financing, the use of proceeds from the financing,
the satisfaction of each party's obligations in accordance with the terms of the definitive agreements for the financing; failure
to receive any required regulatory approvals (including stock exchange) or other approvals, and other factors discussed or referred
to in the Company's Annual Information Form dated March 31, 2017 under "Risk Factors".

Although the Company has attempted to identify important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information or implied
by forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking information
and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated, estimated
or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company undertakes
no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required by applicable
securities laws.

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

 

View original content with multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/July2017/27/c1505.html

%CIK: 0001698535

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 06:30e 27-JUL-17