EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED MAY 9, 2024

 

Exhibit
99.1

 

 

 

NexGen Energy to Host Q1 2024 Conference Call
on Rook I Project Developments

VANCOUVER, BC, May 9, 2024 /CNW/ - NexGen Energy
Ltd. ("NexGen" or the "Company") (TSX: NXE) (NYSE: NXE) (ASX: NXG) is pleased to announce the Company
will host its 2024 first quarter conference call on Tuesday, May 14, 2024, at 8:30 am Eastern Standard Time.

During the call, NexGen's President and Chief Executive
Officer, Leigh Curyer, Chief Commercial Officer, Travis McPherson, and Chief Financial Officer, Benjamin Salter will provide an update
on the Company's 100% owned Rook I Project (the "Project") covering all aspects including, finalization of the Federal
permitting and licensing process, project development, new exploration discovery, treasury and financing, as well as current market dynamics
including marketing strategy.

Call-in Details:

Date: Tuesday, May 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 am Eastern Standard Time

RapidConnect URL: https://emportal.ink/3VJ6lU3
North America Toll Free: 1-888-664-6392
Australia Toll-Free: 1-800-076068

The Company has submitted its Financial Statements
and Management Discussion & Analysis for the first quarter of 2024. These documents are available for review on the NexGen website,
under Reports and Filings, and on the Company's SEDAR+ profile at www.sedarplus.com. In addition, a replay will be available on the NexGen
website under Events & Presentations.

Further Information is available at www.nexgenenergy.ca.

About NexGen

NexGen Energy is a Canadian company focused on delivering
clean energy fuel for the future. The Company's flagship Rook I Project is being optimally developed into the largest low cost
producing uranium mine globally, incorporating the most elite standards in environmental and social governance. The Rook I Project
is supported by a NI 43-101 compliant Feasibility Study which outlines the elite environmental performance and industry leading economics. NexGen
is led by a team of experienced uranium and mining industry professionals with expertise across the entire mining life cycle, including
exploration, financing, project engineering and construction, operations and closure. NexGen is leveraging its proven experience to deliver
a Project that leads the entire mining industry socially, technically and environmentally. The Project and prospective portfolio
in northern Saskatchewan will provide generational long-term economic, environmental, and social benefits for Saskatchewan, Canada, and
the world. 

NexGen is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the
New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "NXE" and on the Australian Securities Exchange under the ticker symbol "NXG"
providing access to global investors to participate in NexGen's mission of solving three major global challenges in decarbonization, energy
security and access to power. The Company is headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, with its primary operations office in
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.

Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors

This news release includes Mineral Reserves and
Mineral Resources classification terms that comply with reporting standards in Canada and the Mineral Reserves and the Mineral Resources
estimates are made in accordance with NI 43-101. NI 43-101 is a rule developed by the Canadian Securities Administrators that establishes
standards for all public disclosure an issuer makes of scientific and technical information concerning mineral projects. These standards
differ from the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") set by the SEC's rules that are applicable to
domestic United States reporting companies. Consequently, Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources information included in this news
release is not comparable to similar information that would generally be disclosed by domestic U.S. reporting companies subject to the
reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC Accordingly, information concerning mineral deposits set forth herein may not be comparable
with information made public by companies that report in accordance with U.S. standards.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of applicable United States securities laws and regulations and "forward-looking information"
within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking information" includes, but is not limited
to, statements with respect to mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates, the 2021 Arrow Deposit, Rook I Project and estimates of
uranium production, grade and long-term average uranium prices, anticipated effects of completed drill results on the Rook I Project,
planned work programs, completion of further site investigations and engineering work to support basic engineering of the project and
expected outcomes. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can be identified by the use of words such as
"plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts",
"intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negative connotation thereof or variations of such words
and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might"
or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved" or the negative connotation thereof. Statements relating to
"mineral resources" are deemed to be forward-looking information, as they involve the implied assessment that, based on certain
estimates and assumptions, the mineral resources described can be profitably produced in the future.

Forward-looking information and statements are
based on the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry and markets
in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including among others, that
the mineral reserve and resources estimates and the key assumptions and parameters on which such estimates are based are as set out in
this news release and the technical report for the property, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated, the price
and market supply of uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable
terms, that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned exploration
activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions will not change
in a materially adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward-looking information or making forward-looking
statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions will prove to be accurate
in the future.

Forward-looking information and statements also
involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements of
NexGen to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by such forward-looking
information or statements, including, among others, the existence of negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party financing,
uncertainty of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously announced preliminary
results, conclusions of economic valuations, the risk that actual results of exploration activities will be different than anticipated,
the cost of labour, equipment or materials will increase more than expected, that the future price of uranium will decline or otherwise
not rise to an economic level, the appeal of alternate sources of energy to uranium-produced energy, that the Canadian dollar will strengthen
against the U.S. dollar, that mineral resources and reserves are not as estimated, that actual costs or actual results of reclamation
activities are greater than expected, that changes in project parameters and plans continue to be refined and may result in increased
costs, of unexpected variations in mineral resources and reserves, grade or recovery rates or other risks generally associated with mining,
unanticipated delays in obtaining governmental, regulatory or First Nations approvals, risks related to First Nations title and consultation,
reliance upon key management and other personnel, deficiencies in the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to
manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain or maintain required permits and licences, risks related to changes in laws, regulations,
policy and public perception, as well as those factors or other risks as more fully described in NexGen's Annual Information Form dated
March 6, 2024 filed with the securities commissions of all of the provinces of Canada except Quebec and in NexGen's 40-F filed with the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca and Edgar at www.sec.gov.

Although the Company has attempted to identify
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information or statements
or implied by forward-looking information or statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated
or intended. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking information or statements due to the inherent uncertainty
thereof.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
information and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated,
estimated or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required
by applicable securities laws.

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nexgen-energy-to-host-q1-2024-conference-call-on-rook-i-project-developments-302141101.html

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

 

View original content to download multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/May2024/09/c2616.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: Travis McPherson, Chief Commercial Officer,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, tmcpherson@nxe-energy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca; Monica Kras, Vice President, Corporate Development,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +44 (0) 7307 191933, mkras@nxe-energy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 06:30e 09-MAY-24