EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED DECEMBER 20, 2018

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

NexGen Announces Filing of NI 43-101 Technical
Report for the Pre-Feasibility Study on the Arrow Deposit, Rook I Project

VANCOUVER, Dec. 20, 2018 /CNW/ - NexGen
Energy Ltd. ("NexGen" or the "Company") (TSX:NXE, NYSE:NXE) is pleased to announce that it has filed
a technical report on the Arrow Deposit, Rook I Project (the "Technical Report") pursuant to National Instrument 43-101
"Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects" ("NI 43-101"). The Technical Report supports the disclosure
made by the Company in its November 5, 2018 news release announcing the results of the maiden pre-feasibility study for the Arrow
Deposit located on the Company's 100% owned, Rook I Property.

The Technical Report, bearing an effective
date of November 5, 2018, is entitled: "Technical Report on the Pre-feasibility Study of the Arrow Deposit, Rook I Property,
Saskatchewan, Canada" and was prepared by Mr. Paul O'Hara, P.Eng. of Wood., Mr. Jason J. Cox, P.Eng. of RPA, Mr. David M.
Robson, P.Eng., M.B.A of RPA, and Mr. Mark B. Mathisen, C.P.G. of RPA, each of whom is a "qualified person" for the purposes
of NI 43-101.

The technical report is available on the Company's
website at www.nexgenenergy.ca and is available under its profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov/edgar.html.

About NexGen

NexGen is a British Columbia corporation with
a focus on the acquisition, exploration and development of Canadian uranium projects. NexGen has a highly experienced team of uranium
industry professionals with a successful track record in the discovery of uranium deposits and in developing projects through discovery
to production. NexGen owns a portfolio of prospective uranium exploration assets in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan, Canada,
including a 100% interest in Rook I, location of the Arrow Deposit in February 2014, the Bow discovery in March 2015, the Harpoon
discovery in August 2016 and the Arrow South discovery in July 2017.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
and "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking
information" includes, but is not limited to, statements with respect to the activities, events or developments that the Company
expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can
be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
"scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes"
or the negative connotation thereof or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may",
"could", "would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved"
or the negative connotation thereof.

Forward-looking information and statements
are based on the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry
and markets in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including
among others, that the proposed transaction will be completed, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated,
the price of uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable
terms, that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned
exploration activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions
will not change in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward looking information
or making forward looking statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions
will prove to be accurate.

Forward-looking information and statements
also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements
of NexGen to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by
such forward-looking information or statements, including, among others, negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party
financing, uncertainty of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously
announced preliminary results, imprecision of mineral resource estimates, the appeal of alternate sources of energy and sustained
low uranium prices, aboriginal title and consultation issues, exploration risks, reliance upon key management and other personnel,
deficiencies in the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain
or maintain required permits and licenses, changes in laws, regulations and policy, competition for resources and financing, and
other factors discussed or referred to in the Company's Annual Information Form dated March 2, 2018 under "Risk Factors".

Although the Company has attempted to identify
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information
or implied by forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
information and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated,
estimated or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required
by applicable securities laws. 

View
original content to download multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nexgen-announces-filing-of-ni-43-101-technical-report-for-the-pre-feasibility-study-on-the-arrow-deposit-rook-i-project-300769990.html

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

View original content to download multimedia:
http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/December2018/20/c4722.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, lcuryer@nexgenenergy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca; Travis McPherson, Vice President Corporate Development,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, tmcpherson@nexgenenergy.ca, http://www.nexgenenergy.ca; For Media Inquiries: Jonathan Goldberg,
KCSA Strategic Communications, +1 212 896 1282, jgoldberg@kcsa.com

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 19:15e 20-DEC-18