EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED JUNE 4, 2018

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

Independent Proxy Advisory Firms, ISS and Glass Lewis
Recommend NexGen Shareholders Vote For All Proposed Items at Annual Meeting

VANCOUVER, June 4, 2018 /CNW/ - NexGen Energy Ltd. ("NexGen"
or the "Company") (TSX:NXE, NYSE MKT:NXE) is pleased to announce that Institutional Shareholder Services ("ISS")
and Glass Lewis & Co. ("Glass Lewis") have both recommended that shareholders vote FOR all proposed items
to be considered at the upcoming annual meeting of shareholders of NexGen to be held at 2:00 p.m. (Vancouver Time) on June 7,
2018, at the Rosewood Hotel Georgia Bowden Room, located at 801 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia.

Both ISS and Glass Lewis are independent, third party, proxy
advisory firms who, among other services, provide proxy voting recommendations to pension funds, investment managers, mutual funds
and other institutional shareholders.

Vote Your Shares Today

Shareholders are reminded to vote
prior to the proxy submission deadline on June 5 at 2:00 p.m.(Vancouver Time)

 
 NexGen's Board of Directors recommends that shareholders vote FOR
 all proposed resolutions
 
 Your vote is important, no matter how many or how few shares you may own. Whether you are able to attend the meeting or not, we
 urge you to vote TODAY.

 

NexGen encourages shareholders to read the meeting materials
in detail. A copy of the meeting materials can be found on the Company's website at www.nexgenenergy.ca/investors/agm/ and
on SEDAR at www.sedar.ca.

 
 
 Beneficial Shareholders
 Shares held with a broker, bank or other 
 intermediary.
 
 Registered Shareholders
 Shares held in own name and represented by a 
 physical certificate.

 Internet:
 www.proxyvote.com
 www.investorvote.com

 Phone or Fax:
 Call or fax to the number(s) listed on your voting instruction form and vote using the control number provided therein.
 Phone: 1-866-732-8683
Fax: 1-866-249-7775

 Mail:
 Return the voting instruction form in the enclosed postage paid envelope.
 Return the form of proxy in the enclosed postage paid envelope.

 

It is recommended that shareholders vote online, by fax
or by telephone as time is of the essence.

About NexGen

NexGen is a British Columbia corporation with a focus on the
acquisition, exploration and development of Canadian uranium projects. NexGen has a highly experienced team of uranium industry
professionals with a successful track record in the discovery of uranium deposits and in developing projects through discovery
to production.

NexGen owns a portfolio of prospective uranium exploration
assets in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan, Canada, including a 100% interest in Rook I, location of the Arrow Deposit in February
2014, the Bow discovery in March 2015, the Harpoon discovery in August 2016 and the Arrow South discovery in July 2017. The Arrow
deposit's updated mineral resource estimate with an effective date of December 20, 2016 was released in March 2017, and comprised
179.5 M lbs U3O8 contained in 1.18 M tonnes grading 6.88% U3O8 in the Indicated Mineral Resource category and an additional 122.1
M lbs U3O8 contained in 4.25 M tonnes grading 1.30% U3O8 in the Inferred Mineral Resource category.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking information" includes,
but is not limited to, statements with respect to the activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates
will or may occur in the future. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can be identified by the
use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget", "scheduled",
"estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negative
connotation thereof or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could",
"would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved" or the negative
connotation thereof.

Forward-looking information and statements are based on
the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry and markets
in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including among others,
that the proposed transaction will be completed, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated, the price of
uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable terms,
that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned exploration
activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions will
not change in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward looking information
or making forward looking statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions
will prove to be accurate.

Forward-looking information and statements also involve
known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements of NexGen
to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by such forward-looking
information or statements, including, among others, negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party financing, uncertainty
of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously announced preliminary
results, imprecision of mineral resource estimates, the appeal of alternate sources of energy and sustained low uranium prices,
aboriginal title and consultation issues, exploration risks, reliance upon key management and other personnel, deficiencies in
the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain or maintain
required permits and licenses, changes in laws, regulations and policy, competition for resources and financing, and other factors
discussed or referred to in the Company's Annual Information Form dated March 31, 2017 under "Risk Factors".

Although the Company has attempted to identify important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information or implied
by forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking information
and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated, estimated
or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company undertakes
no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required by applicable
securities laws. 

View
original content with multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/independent-proxy-advisory-firms-iss-and-glass-lewis-recommend-nexgen-shareholders-vote-for-all-proposed-items-at-annual-meeting-300659440.html

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

 

View original content with multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/June2018/04/c6742.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: If you have any questions about the
information contained in the Circular or require assistance with voting your shares, please contact the Company's Proxy Solicitor,
Laurel Hill Advisory Group, by email at assistance@laurelhill.com or by telephone at 1-877-452-7154 (Toll Free North America) or
1-416-304-0211 (Collect Calls Outside North America)

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 17:31e 04-JUN-18