EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Message
from the NEXGEN Chairman of the Board

 

 

Dear Fellow Shareholders,

 

NexGen Energy Ltd. (“NexGen”
or the “Company”) is pleased to invite you to the Annual General Meeting, which
will be held at 2:00 pm (Pacific Time) on Thursday, June 10, 2021 at the offices of NexGen
located at 1021 West Hastings Street, Suite 3150, Vancouver, British Columbia.

However, due to the impacts of the Covid-19
pandemic, governmental recommendations and/or orders for physical distancing, restrictions on group gatherings, non-essential travel and
business activities we request that shareholders do not attend the meeting in person. As health
and safety is paramount value at NexGen, and to mitigate any risks to stakeholders, employees, partners and community members the Company
will hold this year’s meeting by conference call.

The information circular contains important information
about business to be conducted at the meeting and provides detailed information on the nominated directors, the appointment of auditors,
and the approach to executive compensation.

NexGen’s Board of Directors takes immense
pride in delivering long-term benefits for all stakeholders, and focuses on value creation through strategy execution, developing a generational
orebody through production, and implementing and managing an elite ESG profile.

The Board serves as a strong foundation to the
organization’s corporate governance and endorses the principles of the Company’s corporate governance practices as a fundamental
part of the Company’s culture. The strong corporate governance principles aid in the milestone achievements executed by the Leadership
team at NexGen and maintain the strong confidence of investors, employees, regulatory agencies and community stakeholders.

We encourage that the materials presented in
this package be read and reviewed in advance of the meeting and to take the opportunity to participate in the election process, either
in person or by proxy. Your vote is important.

We appreciate your continued support for NexGen
and participation in this process.

 

Sincerely,

 

Chris McFadden

Chairman of the Board of Directors

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Message
from the Chief Executive Officer

 

 

Since 2011, NexGen has been built on a foundation
of resiliency and the corporate strategy has been executed on optimizing and aligning all stakeholder interests at all times. As an executive,
the culture is to measure ourselves on what we do as a team to optimize the development and operation of this generational asset for many
decades into the future. We measure ourselves quantitatively against our peers and qualitatively through the confidence and certainty
in our achievement, all of which has been done to exceed expectations in everything we accomplish.

 

Through 2020, NexGen continued with the advancement
of key strategic objectives focused on the recently released Rook I Feasibility Study incorporating the highest levels of environmental
performance, substantially strengthening the Balance Sheet and a resulting 117% share price increase over the year reflecting investor
understanding and confidence in NexGen. Organizational growth continued to build throughout the year with the appointment of new qualified
personnel to complement the stage of NexGen’s growth and future development.

 

During the year, Covid-19 became a dynamic
issue that disrupted everyday operations while creating continuous challenges to industry, innovation, and workflows. As a global community,
we travelled unchartered territory and NexGen’s Leadership team implemented elite health and safety measures to protect NexGen’s
team members, their families, partners and vulnerable communities to mitigate the spread of the virus.

 

In the future, 2020 will be recognized as one
of the most definable years in the organization’s history despite the disruption presented by Covid-19. NexGen executed key achievements
on all strategic fronts to advance the Rook I Project and optimally deliver benefits for all stakeholders for multiple decades to come.

 

In 2021, the Company will continue to drive
the strategy forward with a focus on delivering optimally irrespective of past successes. Our highly experienced team is committed to
Elite Standards in everything we do. The team is implementing the most innovative and advanced technologies in the industry and setting
new global standards for environmental mine management and commitment to the social well-being of the communities where we operate.

 

At a time where market demand is far exceeding
supply, NexGen will play a major role in the delivery of clean energy to the world over the next several decades.

 

Sincerely,

 

 

 

Leigh Curyer

President & Chief Executive Officer

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS

 

 
 WHEN:
 WHERE
 
 
 Thursday, June 10, 2021
 2.00 p.m. (Pacific time)
 
 The Offices of NexGen Energy Ltd.
 Suite 3150 - 1021 West Hasting Street
 Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C3
 
 
 CONFERENCE DIAL-IN: 
 
 
 Conference ID: 33931792
 Toronto - 416 764 8659 / Vancouver - 778 383 7413
 North America Toll Free - 1-888-664-6392
Australia - 1-800- 076-068
 Hong Kong - 800-962-712
 
 
 
 
 
Please plan to vote in advance
of the meeting and do not attend in person

The purposes of the meeting
are to:

1.receive the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended December 31, 2020 together with
the report of the independent auditors thereon;

2.elect the nine directors of the Company for the ensuing year;

3.re-appoint KPMG LLP as independent auditor of the Company for the 2021 financial year and to authorize the directors to fix their
remuneration;

4.transact such other business as may properly come before the Meeting or any adjournment
or postponement thereof;

Your Vote is Important

The nature of the business to be transacted at
the Meeting is described in further detail in the accompanying management information circular, which is deemed to form part of this notice
of meeting. Please read the management information circular carefully before you vote on the matters being transacted at the Meeting.

Your vote is important regardless of the number
of NexGen shares you own. Registered NexGen shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting or any postponement or adjournment thereof
in person are requested to complete, date, sign and return the enclosed form of proxy or, alternatively, to vote by telephone, or over
the Internet, in each case in accordance with the enclosed instructions. To be used at the Meeting, the completed proxy form must be deposited
at the office of Computershare Investor Services Inc., no later than 2:00 p.m. (Pacific time) on June 8, 2021 or, if the Meeting is adjourned
or postponed, not later than 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and statutory holidays in the Province of British Columbia) prior
to the time set for the adjourned or postponed Meeting.

Non-registered NexGen shareholders who receive
these materials through their broker or other intermediary should complete and send the form of proxy or voting instruction form in accordance
with the instructions provided by their broker or intermediary.

Your vote is important. We encourage
you to vote promptly.

The deadline to submit your vote
is 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time on June 8, 2021.

 

DATED at Vancouver, British Columbia, this 30th
day of April, 2021.

 

 
 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF NEXGEN ENERGY LTD.
 
 “Leigh Curyer”
 
 
 Leigh Curyer
 President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

 
 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR
 7
 
 
 
 
 
 INFORMATION REGARDING ORANIZATION AND CONDUCT OF MEETING
 7
 
 
 
 Solicitation of Proxies
 7
 
 
 
 Notice-and-Access
 7
 
 
 
 Appointment of Proxyholders
 7
 
 
 
 Voting by Proxyholder
 8
 
 
 
 Registered Shareholders
 8
 
 
 
 Non-Registered Shareholders
 8
 
 
 
 Revocation of Proxies
 9
 
 
 VOTING SHARES AND PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS
 10
 
 
 
 Record Date
 10
 
 
 
 Shares Outstanding and Principal Holders
 10
 
 
 INTEREST OF CERTAIN PERSONS IN MATTERS TO BE ACTED UPON
 10
 
 
 INTEREST OF INFORMED PERSONS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS
 10
 
 
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 10
 
 
 ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
 11
 
 
 
 Cease Trade Orders, Bankruptcies, Penalties or Sanctions
 16
 
 
 
 Board Response to Low Vote Support at Last Year’s AGM
 16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
 18
 
 
 
 
 
 INTRODUCTION
 19
 
 
 COMPANY OVERVIEW
 19
 
 
 COMPANY PERFORMANCE
 20
 
 
 
 Project Development Spend Per Dollar of Executive Salary ($C)(1)
 20
 
 
 
 2020 Share Price Performance
 20
 
 
 
 Total Shareholder Return (TSR) vs. CEO Pay
 22
 
 
 COMPENSATION GOVERNANCE
 22
 
 
 
 The Role of the Compensation Committee
 22
 
 
 
 Composition of the Compensation Committee
 23
 
 
 
 Executive Compensation Decision Making Process
 23
 
 
 
 Independent Compensation Consultant
 23
 
 
 
 Executive Compensation Philosophy
 24
 
 
 
 Executive Compensation Objectives
 24
 
 
 
 Executive Compensation Peer Group and Benchmarking
 24
 
 
 
 Risk Management
 25
 
 
 
 Hedging
 25
 
 
 ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 26
 
 
 
 Base Salaries
 27
 
 
 
 Short-Term Incentive (STI) Awards
 27
 
 
 2020 COMPANY OBJECTIVES
 27
 
 
 
 Feasibility and Environmental Studies
 27
 
 
 
 Covid 19 Response
 27
 
 
 
 Financial
 28
 
 
 
 Talent Acquisition
 28
 
 
 
 Community
 28
 
 
 
 2020 Assessment of Objectives
 28
 
 
 
 Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Awards
 29
 
 
 
 2020 Compensation Mix
 29
 
 
 
 Summary Compensation Table
 30
 
 
 
 Incentive Plan Awards
 31
 
 
 
 Termination and Change of Control Benefits
 32
 
 
 
 Director Compensation
 33
 
 
 
 Incentive Plan Awards
 34
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 36

 
 

 
 DISCLOSURE
 37

 
 
 Director Independence
 37

 
 
 Other Directorships
 37

 
 
 Attendance
 38

 
 
 Charter of the Board of Directors
 39

 
 
 Position Descriptions
 39

 
 
 Orientation and Continuing Education
 39

 
 
 Ethical Business Conduct
 39

 
 
 Nomination of Directors
 40

 
 
 Investor Rights Agreement
 40

 
 
 Advance Notice Provisions
 40

 
 
 Majority Voting
 41

 
 
 Board Committees
 41

 
 
 Assessments
 41

 
 
 Term Limits and Diversity
 42

 
 
 Equity Ownership Guidelines
 42

 
 SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS
 42

 
 
 Equity Compensation Plan Information
 43

 
 
 Stock Option Overhang, Dilution and Burn Rates
 43

 
 INDEBTEDNESS OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 43

 
 APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR
 43

 
 OTHER MATTERS
 44

 
 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 44

 
 
 

 SCHEDULE A
 45

 
 

 
 BOARD MANDATE
 45

 
 I.
 GENERAL
 45

 
 II.
 CONSTITUTION
 45

 
 III.
 BOARD CHAIR
 45

 
 IV.
 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
 45

 
 V.
 MATTERS REQUIRING BOARD APPROVAL
 46

 
 VI.
 STRATEGIC PLANNING
 46

 
 VII.
 RISK MANAGEMENT
 47

 
 VIII.
 FINANCIAL REPORTING AND MANAGEMENT
 47

 
 IX.
 DIRECTOR COMPENSATION
 47

 
 X.
 TERM LIMITS FOR DIRECTORS
 47

 
 XI.
 BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION
 48

 
 XII.
 SELECTION OF NEW DIRECTOR CANDIDATES
 48

 
 XIII.
 DIRECTOR QUALIFICATION STANDARDS
 48

 
 XIV.
 ORIENTATION AND ONGOING EDUCATION
 48

 
 XV.
 BOARD OPERATIONS
 49

 
 A.
 Number of Board Meetings
 49

 
 B.
 Participation on Committees
 49

 
 C.
 Conduct of Meetings
 49

 
 D.
 Agenda for Board and Committee Meetings
 49

 
 E.
 Materials Distributed in Advance of Meetings
 49

 
 F.
 Non-Directors at Board Meetings
 49

 
 G.
 In-Camera Sessions
 49

 
 H.
 Code of Ethics
 49

 
 I.
 Stakeholder Communication
 50

 
 XVI.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 50

 
 XVII.
 CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
 50

 
 XVIII.
 BOARD MEETINGS
 51

 

 
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREhOLDERS 
 

 

MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION CIRCULAR

INFORMATION REGARDING ORANIZATION AND CONDUCT
OF MEETING

This management information circular (the “Circular”)
is furnished in connection with the solicitation of proxies by the management of NexGen Energy Ltd. (the “Company”
or “NexGen”) for use at the annual general meeting (the “Meeting”) of its shareholders to be held
on Thursday, June 10, 2021 at the time and place and for the purposes set forth in the accompanying notice of annual general meeting of
shareholders (the “Notice of Meeting”). Unless otherwise stated, this Circular contains information as at April 30,
2021. References in this Circular to the Meeting include any adjournment or postponement thereof and, unless otherwise indicated, in this
Circular all references to “$” are to Canadian dollars.

The Company holds approximately 51% of the issued
and outstanding common shares of IsoEnergy Ltd. (TSXV: ISO) (“IsoEnergy”). IsoEnergy is a reporting issuer subject
to Canadian securities laws, including disclosure regarding compensation of its directors and executive officers. Further information
regarding the compensation paid by IsoEnergy and stock options and common shares held by those common directors and officers will be available
in its management information circular which will be filed under its profile on www.sedar.com.

Solicitation of Proxies

It is expected that proxies will be solicited
primarily by mail, but proxies may also be solicited personally, by telephone, email or by other means of electronic communication, by
directors, officers or employees of the Company, to whom no additional compensation will be paid. All costs of solicitation will be borne
by NexGen. In addition, the Company shall, upon request, reimburse brokerage firms and other custodians for their reasonable expenses
in forwarding proxies and related material to beneficial owners of common shares of the Company.

NexGen has also retained Laurel Hill Advisory
Group (“Laurel Hill”) to assist with communicating with shareholders. In connection with these services, Laurel Hill
is to receive a fee of $40,000, plus out-of-pocket expenses. The Company will bear all costs of this solicitation.

Notice-and-Access

The Company has decided to use the notice and
access mechanism (the “Notice-and-Access Provisions”) under National Instrument 54-101 - Communication with Beneficial
Owners of Securities of a Reporting Issuer (“NI 54-101”) for the delivery of this Circular to shareholders for
the Meeting.

Under the Notice-and-Access Provisions, instead
of receiving printed copies of this Circular, shareholders will receive a notice (“Notice”) with information on the
Meeting as well as information on how they may access this Circular electronically and how
they may vote.

The Company will not use the procedures known
as “stratification” in relation to the use of Notice-and- Access Provisions meaning that all shareholders will receive a Notice
in accordance with the Notice-and- Access Provisions.

Shareholders can request that printed copies
of this Circular be sent to them by postal delivery, at no cost to them, up to one year after the date this Circular was filed on SEDAR
by calling toll-free (in Canada and the United States) 1-800-841-5821 or by emailing ddang@nxe-energy.ca.
See under the heading “How to Obtain Paper Copies of the Circular” in the accompanying Notice and Access Notification
to Shareholders.

Appointment of Proxyholders

The persons named in the enclosed form of proxy
or voting instruction form are executive officers of the Company. You have the right to appoint someone other than the persons designated
in the enclosed form of proxy, who need not be a shareholder, to attend and act on your behalf at the Meeting by printing the name of
the person you want in the blank space provided or by completing and delivering another suitable form of proxy.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 7
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Voting by Proxyholder

On any ballot, the nominees named in the accompanying
proxy form will vote or withhold from voting or vote against (as applicable), your common shares in accordance with your instructions.
In respect of any matter for which a choice is not specified, the persons named in the accompanying proxy form will vote at their own
discretion, except where management recommends that shareholders vote in favour of a matter, in which case the nominees will vote FOR
the approval of such matter.

The form of proxy confers discretionary authority
upon the nominees named therein with respect to amendments or variations to matters identified in the Notice of Meeting and with respect
to other matters which may properly come before the Meeting.

As of the date of this Circular, management of
NexGen knows of no such amendment, variation or other matter that may come before the Meeting. However, if any amendment, variation or
other matter should properly come before the Meeting, each nominee named in the accompanying proxy form intends to vote thereon in accordance
with the nominee’s best judgment or as stated above.

Registered Shareholders

A registered shareholder is a person whose common
shares are registered in the shareholder’s own name (“Registered Shareholder”). Registered Shareholders who are
unable to attend the Meeting or any postponement or adjournment thereof in person are requested to complete, date, sign and return the
enclosed form of proxy or, alternatively, to vote by telephone, or over the Internet, in each case in accordance with the enclosed instructions.

To vote by telephone, Registered Shareholders
should call Computershare Investor Services Inc. at 1-866-732- VOTE (8683). Registered Shareholders will need to enter the 15-digit control
number provided on the form of proxy to identify themselves as shareholders on the telephone voting system.

To vote over the Internet, Registered
Shareholders should go to www.investorvote.com. NexGen shareholders will need to enter the 15-digit
control number provided on the form of proxy to identify themselves as shareholders on the voting website.

To vote by mail, Registered Shareholders
should complete, date and sign the form of proxy and mail in the enclosed return envelope to the office of Computershare Investor Services
Inc.

Voting instructions must be received no later
than 2:00 p.m. (Pacific time) on June 8, 2021 or, if the Meeting is adjourned or postponed,
not later than 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and statutory holidays in either the Province of Ontario or the Province of British
Columbia) prior to the time set for the adjourned or postponed meeting.

Late proxies may be accepted or rejected by the
Chair of the Meeting in his or her discretion.

Non-Registered Shareholders

Most shareholders of the Company are “non-registered”
shareholders (“Non-Registered Shareholders”) because the common shares they own are not registered in their name but
are registered in the name of an intermediary such as a bank, trust company, securities dealer or broker, trustee or administrator, of
a self- administered RRSP, RRIF, or RESP or a clearing agency (such as CDS Clearing and Depositary Services Inc.) of which the intermediary
is a participant.

Applicable regulatory policy requires intermediaries/brokers
to whom meeting materials have been sent to seek voting instructions from Non-Registered Shareholders in advance of shareholders’
meetings. Every intermediary has its own mailing procedures and provides its own return instructions, which should be carefully followed
in order to ensure that the Non-Registered Shareholder’s common shares are voted at the Meeting.

The majority of brokers now delegate responsibility
for obtaining instructions from Non-Registered Shareholders to Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. (“Broadridge”).
Broadridge typically mails a scannable voting instruction form (“VIF”), instead of the form of proxy. Non-Registered
Shareholders are requested to complete and return the VIF to Broadridge. Alternatively, Non-Registered Shareholders can call a toll-free
telephone number or access Broadridge’s dedicated voting website www.proxyvote.com.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 8
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

The VIF must be returned as directed by Broadridge
well in advance of the Meeting in order to have the common shares voted. Non-Registered Shareholders who receive forms of proxies or voting
materials from organizations other than Broadridge should complete and return such forms of proxies or voting materials in accordance
with the instructions on such materials in order to properly vote their common shares at the Meeting.

NexGen may utilize the Broadridge QuickVoteTM
service to assist Non-Registered Shareholders vote their shares. Those shareholders who have not objected to NexGen knowing who they are
(non-objecting beneficial owners) may be contacted by Laurel Hill to conveniently obtain a vote directly over the phone.

Non-Registered Shareholders are not entitled,
as such, to vote at the Meeting in person or to deliver a form of proxy. If you are a Non-Registered Shareholder and wish to appoint yourself
as proxyholder to vote in person at the Meeting or appoint someone else to attend the Meeting and vote on your behalf, please see the
voting instructions you received or contact your intermediary/broker well in advance of the Meeting to determine how you can do so.

Non-Registered Shareholders should carefully
follow the voting instructions they receive, including those on how and when voting instructions are to be provided, in order to have
their common shares voted at the Meeting.

Revocation of Proxies

Only a Registered Shareholder who has submitted
a proxy may revoke it at any time prior to the exercise thereof. In addition to revocation
in any other manner permitted by law, a proxy may
be revoked by instrument in writing executed by the Registered Shareholder or such shareholder’s legal representative, or if the
Registered Shareholder is a corporation, by its duly authorized legal, and deposited at the Company’s registered office: Suite 2500,
700 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, BC V7Y 1B3 at any time up to and including the last business day preceding the day of the Meeting
at which the proxy is to be used, or with the Chair of the Meeting on the day of the Meeting prior to voting and, upon either of such
deposits, the proxy is revoked.

Non-Registered Shareholders who wish to change
their vote must, in sufficient time in advance of the Meeting, arrange for their respective intermediaries to change their vote and if
necessary, revoke the proxy on their behalf.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 9
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

VOTING SHARES AND PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS

Record Date

The board of directors of NexGen (the “Board”)
has fixed April 30, 2021 as the record date, being the date for the determination of the holders of the Company’s common shares
entitled to notice of, and to vote at, the Meeting and any adjournment or postponement thereof.

Shares Outstanding and Principal Holders

As of April 30, 2021, there were a total of 470,683,919
NexGen common shares issued and outstanding. The holders of the common shares are entitled to receive notice of, and to attend, all meetings
of NexGen shareholders and to have one vote for each common share held.

 

To the knowledge of the directors and executive officers of the Company,
as of the date of this Circular, no person or company beneficially owns, or controls or directs, directly or indirectly, voting securities
carrying 10% or more of the voting rights attached to any class of voting securities of NexGen, except for the following:

 

 
 Name
 Type of Security
 Approximate number (and percentage of class) beneficially owned, or controlled or directed, directly or indirectly
 
 Victor Tzar-Kuoi Li and Ka-shing Li(1)
 Common Shares
 50,231,498 (10.67%)
 
 

Note:

(1)Such common shares are registered to Next Global and Sprinkle Ring (as defined below). 

 

INTEREST OF CERTAIN PERSONS IN MATTERS TO BE ACTED
UPON

The Company is unaware of any material interest,
direct or indirect, by way of beneficial ownership of securities or otherwise, of any person who has been a director or executive officer
of the Company at any time since the beginning of the Company’s last financial year, or is a proposed nominee for election as a
director (or an associate or affiliate of such director, executive officer or director nominee) in any matter to be acted upon at the
Meeting, other than the election of directors.

INTEREST OF INFORMED PERSONS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS

The Company is unaware of any material interest,
direct or indirect, of any informed person or any proposed nominee for election as a director of the Company (or an associate or affiliate
of such informed person or director nominee) in any transaction since the beginning of the Company’s last financial year or any
proposed transaction, which has materially affected or would materially affect the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The audited consolidated financial statements
of the Company for the financial year ended December 31, 2020 and the report of the independent auditors thereon will be presented at
the Meeting. These consolidated financial statements and the related management’s discussion and analysis were sent to all shareholders
who have requested a copy. The Company’s consolidated financial statements and related management’s discussion and analysis
for the financial year ended December 31, 2020 are also available under the Company’s profile on SEDAR (www.sedar.com)
and on the Company’s website (www.nexgenenergy.ca).

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 10
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

ELECTION OF DIRECTORS

The directors of the Company are elected annually
and hold office until the next annual general meeting of the shareholders or until their successors are elected or appointed. Management
proposes to nominate the persons listed below for election as directors of the Company to serve until their successors are elected or
appointed.

Unless otherwise indicated, the persons designated
as proxyholders in the accompanying form of proxy will vote the common shares represented by such form of proxy FOR the election of the
nine director nominees listed in this Circular. Management does not contemplate that any of the nominees will be unable to serve as
a director.

The following table provides information on the
nine director nominees, including: (i) their province or state and country of residence; (ii)
the date when they were appointed a director; (iii) whether they are considered to be independent; (iv) their membership on committees
of the Board; (v) their principal occupation, business or employment presently and over the preceding five (5) years; and (vi) the number
of common shares and stock options of the Company (does not include common shares or stock options of IsoEnergy for the common directors)
beneficially owned, controlled, or directed, directly or indirectly.

 

 
 
 Leigh
 Curyer(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2013 
 Not Independent
 Age: 49
 
 
 Mr. Curyer has over 20 years’
 experience in the resources and corporate sector. Mr. Curyer founded the Company in 2011 and currently serves as the President and Chief
 Executive Officer. Mr. Curyer was previously the Chief Financial Officer and head of corporate development of Southern Cross Resources
 Inc. (now Uranium One Inc.). In addition, from 2008 to 2011, Mr. Curyer was Head of Corporate Development for Accord Nuclear Resources
 Management, assessing uranium projects worldwide for First Reserve Corporation, a global energy-focused private equity and infrastructure
 investment firm.
 Mr. Curyer also serves as the Chairman
 of Iso Energy Ltd.
 Mr. Curyer’s uranium project
 assessment experience has been focused on assets located in Canada, Australia, USA, Africa, Central Asia and Europe, including operating
 mines, advanced development projects and exploration prospects. Mr. Curyer has a Bachelor of Arts in Accountancy from the University of
 South Australia and is a member of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand. Mr. Curyer is a resident of British Columbia, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Sustainability Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 President and Chief Executive Officer of NexGen Energy Ltd.
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 11,150,000
 4,000,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 11
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 
 Warren Gilman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2017 Independent
 Age: 61
 
 Mr. Gilman was appointed as a Director
 of NexGen on July 21, 2017. He was appointed Chairman and CEO of Queen’s Road Capital Investments Limited in 2019. Prior to that
 he was Chairman and CEO of CEF Holdings Limited. Previously he was Vice Chairman of CIBC World Markets. Mr. Gilman was also previously
 Managing Director and Head of Asia Pacific Region for CIBC for 10 years where he was responsible for all of CIBC's activities across Asia.
 Mr. Gilman is a mining engineer who co-founded CIBC's Global Mining Group in 1988. During his 26 years with CIBC he ran the mining team
 in Canada, Australia and Asia and worked in the Toronto, Sydney, Perth, Shanghai and Hong Kong offices of CIBC. He has acted as advisor
 to the largest mining companies in the world including BHP, Rio Tinto, Anglo American, Noranda, Falconbridge, Meridian Gold, China Minmetals,
 Jinchuan and Zijin and has been responsible for some of the largest equity capital markets financings in Canadian mining history.
 Mr. Gilman also serves on the Board
 of Chaarat Gold Holdings Ltd., Aurania Resource Ltd., and Gold Royalty Corp.
 Mr. Gilman obtained his B.Sc. in
 Mining Engineering at Queen's University and his MBA from the Ivey Business School at Western University. He is Chairman of the International
 Advisory Board of Western University and a member of the Dean's Advisory Board of Laurentian University. Mr. Gilman is a resident of Hong
 Kong, China.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Audit Committee and Sustainability Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Chairman and CEO of Queen’s Road Capital Investments Limited
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 1,700,000
 Nil
 
 

 
 Karri Howlett
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2018 Independent
 Age: 45
 
 Ms. Howlett has over 20 years of
 experience in corporate strategy, mergers and acquisitions, financial due diligence, and risk analysis. Ms. Howlett currently sits on
 the Boards of SaskPower (as Chair of the Safety, Environment and Social Responsibility Committee) and Saskatchewan Trade Export Partnership.
 Ms. Howlett has conducted financial
 due diligence and risk analysis for several business endeavors, including business advisement and financial modelling for several mining
 and energy projects, as well as mergers of financial institutions. Ms. Howlett was recently President of RESPEC Consulting Inc., which
 is a geoscience and engineering consulting company based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
 Ms. Howlett holds a Bachelor of Commerce
 (with honors) in Finance from the University of Saskatchewan and has earned the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation and the
 Chartered Director designation. An active community member, Ms. Howlett has previously served on the boards of Varsity View Community
 Association, Skate Saskatoon, and CFA Society of Saskatchewan. In addition, Ms. Howlett has been involved with the University of Saskatchewan’s
 Edwards School of Business as a lecturer in the Department of Finance, a participant in the Leadership Development Program, and a protégé
 in the Betty Ann Heggie Womentorship Program. Ms. Howlett is a resident of Saskatchewan, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Sustainability Committee (Chair)
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 President, Karri Howlett Consulting Inc.
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 1,450,000
 Nil
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 12
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 
 Christopher McFadden
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2013 Independent
 Age: 52
 
 
 Mr. McFadden is a lawyer with 22 years
 of experience in exploration and mining. Previously, Mr. McFadden was the President and Chief Executive Officer of NxGold Ltd., and, before
 that the Manager, Business Development at Newcrest Mining Limited, the Head of Commercial, Strategy and Corporate
 Development for Tigers Realm Coal Limited, which is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange. Additionally, Mr. McFadden was General Manager,
 Business Development of Tigers Realm Minerals Pty Ltd. Prior to commencing with the Tigers Realm Group in 2010, Mr. McFadden was a Commercial
 General Manager with Rio Tinto’s exploration division with responsibility for gaining entry into new projects through negotiation
 with government or joint venture partners, or through acquisition.
 Mr. McFadden currently serves on
 the Board of Iso Energy Ltd.
 Mr. McFadden has extensive international
 experience in managing large and complex transactions and has a broad knowledge of all aspects of project evaluation and negotiation in
 challenging and varied environments. Mr. McFadden holds a combined law/commerce degree from Melbourne University and an MBA from Monash
 University. Mr. McFadden is a resident of Victoria, Australia.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Chairman of the Board, Audit Committee and Sustainability Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 2,200,000
 615,000
 
 

 
 Richard Patricio(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2013 Independent
 Age: 47
 
 
 Mr. Patricio is the President and Chief
 Executive Officer of Mega Uranium Ltd., having previously been its Executive Vice President from 2005 to 2015.
 Until April 2016,
 Mr. Patricio was also the Chief Executive Officer of Pinetree Capital Ltd. (“Pinetree”). Mr. Patricio joined Pinetree
 in November 2005 as Vice President, Corporate and Legal Affairs. Mr. Patricio was previously general counsel for Teknion Corp., a senior
 TSX-listed manufacturing company. Prior to that, Mr. Patricio practiced law at Osler LLP in Toronto where he focused on mergers and acquisitions,
 securities law and general corporate transactions.
 Mr. Patricio has built a number of
 mining companies with global operations and holds senior officer and director positions in several companies listed on stock exchanges
 in Toronto, Australia, London and New York. He currently serves on the Board of Iso Energy Ltd., Sterling Metals Corp., Toro Energy Limited,
 Sixty Six Capital Inc., and Mindset Pharma Inc.
 Mr. Patricio received his law
 degree from Osgoode Hall and was called to the Ontario bar in 2000. Mr. Patricio is a resident of Ontario, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee (Chair); Audit Committee; Compensation Committee (Chair)
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 President and Chief Executive Officer of Mega Uranium Ltd.
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 2,350,000
 974,900
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 13
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 
 Trevor Thiele
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2013 Independent
 Age: 63
 
 Mr. Thiele has over 30 years’
 experience in senior finance roles in medium to large Australian listed companies. Mr. Thiele has also been Chief Financial Officer for
 companies involved in the agribusiness sector (Elders and ABB Grain Ltd., Rural Services Division) and the biotechnology sector (Bionomics
 Limited). In these roles he combined his technical, accounting, and financial skills with commercial expertise thereby substantially contributing
 to the growth of each of these businesses. During this time, Mr. Thiele was actively involved in initial public offerings, capital raisings,
 corporate restructures, mergers and acquisitions, refinancing and joint ventures.
 Mr. Thiele currently serves on the
 Board of Iso Energy Ltd.
 Mr. Thiele holds a Bachelor of Arts
 in Accountancy from the University of South Australia and is a member of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand. Mr. Thiele is
 a resident of South Australia, Australia.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Audit Committee (Chair); Compensation Committee; Nomination and Governance Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 2,350,000
 Nil
 
 

 
 Sybil Veenman
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2018 Independent
 Age: 57
 
 
 Ms. Veenman has over 20 years of mining
 industry experience, including as a senior executive and, more recently, as a public company director. Previously, Ms. Veenman was a Senior
 Vice-President and General Counsel and a member of the executive leadership team at Barrick Gold Corporation. In that capacity, Ms. Veenman
 was responsible for overall management of legal affairs, extensively engaged in that company’s significant M&A and financing
 transactions and involved in a wide range of operational, regulatory, political, and social responsibility aspects of the mining business.
 Ms. Veenman currently serves as
 a Director at Nasdaq-listed Royal Gold Inc., and TSX-listed Major Drilling Group International Inc., and is also Chair of the Board of
 Directors of the Boost Child & Youth Advocacy Centre in Toronto, a non-profit organization dedicated to providing child and youth
 services and support.
 Ms. Veenman holds a Law degree
 from the University of Toronto and has completed the Institute of Corporate Directors, Directors Education Program and obtained the ICD.D
 designation from the Institute. Ms. Veenman is a resident of Ontario, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee; Compensation Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 1,450,000
 60,000
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 14
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 
 Brad Wall(3)
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2019 
 Not Independent
 Age: 55
 
 Mr. Wall was the 14th Premier
 of Saskatchewan; Mr. Wall brings to NexGen’s Board political experience spanning over an 18-year period. During his 10-year tenure
 as Premier of Saskatchewan, Mr. Wall led the province to unprecedented economic expansion, strong population and export growth, record
 infrastructure investment and the first ever and continuing AAA credit for the Province’s finances. Mr. Wall worked successfully
 with the previous federal government to achieve nuclear cooperation agreements between Canada and both India and China opening those civilian
 nuclear energy markets to Canadian uranium. He is an advocate for sustainable, inclusive economic development and provides strategic insight
 to the energy sector. Mr. Wall is a resident of Saskatchewan, Canada.
 Mr. Wall currently serves on the
 Board of Maxim Power Corp., Whitecap Resources Inc. and Dye & Durham.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Nil
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director and Consultant
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 1,450,000
 17,100
 
 

 
 Don J. Roberts(4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 New Nominee for Director
 Independent
 Age: 69
 
 
 Mr. Roberts has had a lengthy
 and successful career as a leading financial executive and Chartered Accountant in various countries including Canada, Italy and Hong
 Kong.
 Mr. Roberts retired in 2011 after
 a 23 year career in Hong Kong as Group Deputy Chief Financial Officer of CK Hutchison Holdings (previously Hutchison Whampoa Limited),
 a listed conglomerate and Fortune 500 company headquartered in Hong Kong with operations in over 40 countries, including Hong Kong, Mainland
 China, Canada and throughout Europe. During this career he was responsible for listed company financial reporting, credit rating reviews,
 and group wide taxation, and actively involved in investor relations, corporate governance, equity and debt capital market activities,
 corporate restructurings, acquisitions, mergers and joint ventures in various countries around the world. Prior to joining CK Hutchison
 Holdings, he trained and worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers in their Calgary, Vancouver, Turin - Italy, and Hong Kong offices.
 During his career he has been
 involved in various industries including oil and gas, mining, manufacturing, shipping, container ports, telecommunications, property investment
 and development, utilities, infrastructure, retail, treasury and investment.
 Mr. Roberts currently serves as
 an Independent Non-executive Director and Chairman or member of the audit committee on a number of listed and private companies including
 CK Asset Holdings, CK Life Sciences Int'l, HK Electric Investments, all listed in Hong Kong and Queen’s Road Capital Investment,
 listed on the Toronto exchange. 
 Mr. Roberts holds a Bachelor of
 Commerce degree from the University of Calgary and is a member of the Chartered Professional Accounts of Canada. 
 
 Board Committees
 
 Nil
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options
 Common Shares
 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 15
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

Notes:

(1)Mr. Curyer is not independent on the basis that he is an executive officer of the Company.

(2)In addition, Mega Uranium Ltd. holds 19,476,265 common shares of NexGen. Mr. Patricio
is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mega Uranium Ltd. The common shares of Mega Uranium Ltd. are listed on the TSX.

(3)Mr. Wall is not independent on the basis that he is an executive officer of the
consulting company, Flying W Consulting that is engaged by the Company.

(4)Mr. Roberts is a new nominee nominated pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement
(see “Investor Rights Agreement” on page 41)

For the purposes of this Circular, unless otherwise
stated, “independence” has been assessed in accordance with National Instrument 58-101 - Disclosure of Corporate Governance
Practices (the “Disclosure Instrument”).

Cease Trade Orders, Bankruptcies, Penalties or
Sanctions

To the knowledge of management, no proposed director:

(a)is, as of the date of this Circular, or has been,
within ten years before the date of this Circular, a director, chief executive officer or chief financial officer of any company (including
the Company) that,

(i)while that person was acting in that capacity, was subject to a cease trade order,
an order similar to a cease trade order or an order that denied the relevant issuer access to any exemption under securities legislation,
that was in effect for a period of more than 30 consecutive days (an "Order"); or

(ii)was subject to an Order that was issued after the proposed director ceased to be
a director, chief executive officer or chief financial officer and which resulted from an event that occurred while that person was acting
in the capacity of director, chief executive officer or chief financial officer; or

(b)is, at the date of this Circular, or has been within
ten years before the date of this Circular, a director or an executive officer of any company (including the Company) that, while that
person was acting in that capacity, or within a year of that person ceasing to act in that capacity, became bankrupt, made a proposal
under any legislation relating to bankruptcy or insolvency or was subject to or instituted any proceedings, arrangement or compromise
with creditors or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee appointed to hold its assets; or

(c)has within ten years before the date of this Circular,
become bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, or become subject to or instituted any proceedings,
arrangement or compromise with creditors, or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee appointed to hold the assets of the proposed
director.

 

In addition, to the knowledge of management,
no proposed director has been subject to any penalties or sanctions imposed by a court relating to securities legislation or by a securities
regulatory authority or has entered into a settlement agreement with a securities regulatory authority or been subject to any other penalties
or sanctions imposed by a court, or regulatory body that would likely be considered important to a reasonable securityholder in deciding
whether to vote for a proposed director.

Board Response to Low Vote Support at Last Year’s
AGM

Last year, while all director nominees were successfully
elected to the board, Richard Patricio and Warren Gilman received less shareholder support than other directors, though still achieving
73.7% and 77.1% respectively of support from voting shareholders.

 

Certain shareholders and the proxy advisor ISS expressed
concerns about the number of Mr. Patricio’s and Mr. Gilman’s directorships and whether their effectiveness at NexGen would
suffer due to such commitments. Proxy Advisor Glass Lewis did not raise the same concerns.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 16
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

The Board understands the reasons and concerns regarding
over-boarding in general. However, the Board values the knowledge, experience and additional perspective of directors who sit on boards
of other publicly traded companies provided they do not interfere with the commitment to NexGen. The Board does not believe the contributions
of Mr. Patricio and Mr. Gilman have been adversely impacted by their other commitments. Both Directors have perfect attendance, attending
100% of all board and key committee meetings held in the last fiscal year, are well prepared, and contribute significantly to discussions
and deliberations. Their active participation and high-levels of engagement, coupled with their diverse experience and depth of knowledge
in the mining industry, render both Messrs. Patricio and Gilman key members of the Board. Further, it should be noted that one of Mr.
Patricio’s directorships is with NexGen’s affiliate, ISO Energy, and one of his other directorships directly relates to his
employment as President and CEO of Mega Uranium Ltd., serving as its Board representative on Toro Energy Ltd.

 

Since there is no evidence that their effectiveness
as directors of NexGen have suffered from their other commitments the Board and Nomination & Governance Committee are satisfied that
their nomination is supported despite the number of directorships appearing to be excessive by some measures.

 

We will continue to monitor the effectiveness and commitments
of all directors and will recommend appropriate action such as resigning other directorships, should any director’s effectiveness
decline due to over-boarding or for any other reason.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 17
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 

COMPENSATION
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

 

 

 

 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

 
 INTRODUCTION
 19
 
 COMPANY OVERVIEW
 19
 
 COMPANY PERFORMANCE
 20
 
 COMPENSATION GOVERNANCE
 22
 
 ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 26
 
 2020 COMPANY OBJECTIVES
 27
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 18
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Introduction

This section provides information on our executive
compensation program for 2020. For 2020, our Named Executive Officers, as defined in Form 51-102F6 - Statement of Executive Compensation
were as follows:

•Leigh Curyer - President and Chief Executive Officer (President and CEO)

•Anthony (Tony) George - Chief Project Officer

•Travis McPherson - Senior Vice President, Corporate Development

•Troy Boisjoli - Vice President, Operations & Project Development

•Gillian A. McCombie - Vice President, Human Resources

We refer to our Named Executive Officers as
Executives in the Circular.

Company
Overview

NexGen Energy Ltd. was founded in 2011 to acquire,
discover and develop the world’s next major uranium project in Saskatchewan’s Athabasca Basin. Today, NexGen is a well-funded
development company, holding 209,738 hectares of exploration tenements strategically located along the edge of the Athabasca Basin, which
includes the wholly-owned world class Arrow Deposit - the largest to be developed uranium deposit in Canada.

NexGen’s team of mining and uranium industry
professionals bring together a world of leading-edge experience and expertise across the entire mining life cycle, all backed by a global
base of long-term capital. Built on the highest industry standards, NexGen is well positioned to bring the Arrow deposit into production
and maintain momentum as the future uranium market leader.

In
2018, NexGen was awarded the PDAC Bill Dennis Award for a Canadian Discovery. The award honours those who have made a significant mineral
discovery. In 2019, NexGen was awarded the PDAC Environmental and Social Responsibility Award. This award honours global companies for
outstanding leadership in environmental protection and/or good community relations. In 2020, NexGen was recognized by the Cannes Corporate
Media & TV Awards with a gold medal for its role in the documentary “Dëne Sųłiné - Our People”
which explored the Dëne Sųłiné language in La Loche and the Clearwater River Dene Nation. Also, in 2020, NexGen
was awarded the Paragon Award from the Regina Chamber of Commerce recognizing the Company’s community involvement.

NexGen’s
mission is to build a long-lasting energy legacy in the interests of all stakeholders. The Company’s ethos is centered in the premise
of elite standards in everything the organization does. This translates into a culture of constant evolution and continuous improvement
as well as the most efficient use of capital and driving innovation across the industry. That includes the environment and land
itself, as well as the people who bring the projects to life. Safe, beneficial, and sustainable development is the only thing the organization
will accept.

NexGen is dedicated to both sustainably developing
the Arrow project in the most efficient manner and community advancement at the same time, all while safeguarding the environment for
generations to come.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 19
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

COMPANY PERFORMANCE

Project Development Spend Per Dollar of Executive
Salary ($C)(1)

 

Note:

(1)Project Development spend includes costs related to exploration, drilling, environmental and permitting, engineering and design, direct
labour and associated costs. Source: Publicly filed Management Information Circular of Uranium Peer companies.

Since its listing in 2013, NexGen has continuously
demonstrated that it leads the sector in the efficient use of capital in terms of the ratio of expenditure incurred on “exploration
& development” of its projects relative to named executive officers salaries. Further, the cost per pound of U3O8
discovered for a uranium resource over 100Mlbs is significantly the lowest in history. 2020 saw a temporary reduction in this ratio which
was expected due to the stage of the project transitioning from resource definition, technical and environmental studies throughout 2016-2109
into final feasibility and permitting during 2020, plus the temporary suspension of activities due to Covid-19.

2020 Share Price Performance

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 20
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

Performance Graph

The Company first commenced trading on the TSXV
as “Clermont Capital Inc.”, a “capital pool company” within the meaning of Policy 2.4 - Capital Pool Companies
(the “CPC Policy”) of the TSXV, on August 29, 2012 under the symbol “XYZ.P”. On April 19, 2013, the Company
completed its “qualifying transaction” and in connection therewith consolidated its common shares on a 2.35:1 basis and changed
its name to “NexGen Energy Ltd.” On April 22, 2013, the Company’s common shares commenced trading on the TSXV under
the symbol “NXE”. As NexGen continued to grow it graduated from the TSXV and commenced trading on TSX on July 15, 2016 under
the symbol “NXE”. On May 17th, 2017 NexGen commenced trading on the NYSE American (formerly NYSE MKT) under the
symbol “NXE”.

The following graph compares the Company’s
cumulative total shareholder return over the five most recently completed financial years ending December 31, 2020. It portrays the five
year growth of $100 invested in the common shares of NexGen from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2020 compared to $100 invested in the
S&P/TSX Composite Index, the S&P/TSX Total Return Index, or the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index for the same time period, assuming
the reinvestment of all dividends (if applicable).

 

As indicated by the stock chart above, NexGen
outperformed its peers, who are represented by the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index, and it also outperformed the S&P/TSX Composite
Index and the S&P/TSX Total Return Index. Over the course of fiscal year 2020 and over the past five years ending Dec 31st,
2020 NexGen Returned ~117% and ~388%, respectively to its shareholders.

 
 
 01-Jan-16
 31-Dec-16
 31-Dec-17
 31-Dec-18
 31-Dec-19
 31-Dec-20
 
 NXE
 100.0
 323.61
 454.83
 334.72
 231.94
 487.50
 
 S&P/TSX Composite Index
 100.0
 118.26
 125.39
 110.80
 132.00
 134.86
 
 S&P/TSX Total Return Index
 100
 121.08
 132.09
 120.36
 147.89
 156.17
 
 S&P/TSX Global Mining Index
 100.0
 141.46
 162.25
 152.05
 184.88
 228.36
 
The Company’s Executive compensation is
based on several factors including, but not limited to, the demand for and supply of skilled professionals in the resource industry generally,
individual performance, the Company’s performance and other factors. The trading price of the common shares on the TSX is subject
to fluctuation based on several factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Company and its Executives. These include, among
other things, market perception of the Company’s ability to achieve planned growth or results, trading volume in the Company’s
common shares, and changes in general conditions in the economy and financial markets.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 21
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Total Shareholder Return (TSR) vs. CEO Pay

The CEO’s pay is in line with the performance
of NexGen’s common shares. This helps align management interests with that of shareholders. In every year, over the past five years,
CEO pay has moved in the same direction as the annual change in TSR.

 

COMPENSATION GOVERNANCE

The Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s
compensation program. The Board has however delegated certain oversight responsibilities in this regard to the Company’s Compensation
Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) but retains final authority over the Company’s compensation program
and process.

The Role of the Compensation Committee

The Compensation Committee assists the Board in fulfilling
its responsibilities relating to the human resources and compensation issues. The Compensation Committee meets through a combination of
formal and informal meetings at least four times per year and holds in-camera sessions, without the presence of management, as needed.

The Compensation Committee consults with management
on Executive compensation related to:

•establishing the Company’s general compensation philosophy and overseeing the development and implementation
of the Company’s compensation programs;

•reviewing and approving Company goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of the CEO, evaluating
the performance of the CEO in light of those goals and objectives, and setting the CEO’s compensation level based on this evaluation,
subject to the approval of the Board;

•reviewing and approving compensation, incentive plans, and equity-based plans for all other senior officers
of the Company after considering recommendations of the CEO, all within the compensation policies and guidelines approved by the Board;
and

•reviewing the adequacy and form of the compensation of directors and ensuring that the compensation realistically
reflects the responsibilities and risks involved.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 22
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Composition of the Compensation Committee

The Compensation Committee is comprised of three
(3) independent members of the Board: Richard Patricio (Chair), Trevor Thiele and Sybil Veenman.
The Compensation Committee has a written mandate which was approved by the Board in 2018.

By virtue of their respective experience as executives
and their exposure to capital markets, corporate governance and regulatory matters, each member possesses the relevant decision-making
skills that make them suitable members of the Compensation Committee. A general description of the education and experience of each Compensation
Committee member which is relevant to the performance of their responsibilities as a Compensation Committee member is contained in their
respective biographies set out under “Election of Directors” in this Circular. In particular, Mr. Patricio and Ms. Veenman
are qualified lawyers with extensive experience as officers and directors of mining companies including as members of compensation committees
thereof and Mr. Thiele has extensive financial experience. In addition, each of Messrs. Patricio and Thiele have been involved with the
Company since inception and hence are intimately familiar with its operations and senior management team. As a result, each of them is
qualified to make decisions on the suitability of the Company’s compensation policies and practices.

Executive Compensation Decision Making Process

 

Independent Compensation Consultant

In September 2019, the compensation committee
decided to change compensation advisors and engage the services of Global Governance Advisors (“GGA”) as its independent compensation
consultant to assist in determining the compensation for our Executives. GGA is an internationally recognized, independent advisory firm
that provides counsel to boards of directors on matters relating to executive compensation and governance. In 2019, GGA performed a review
of the Company’s compensation philosophy, a detailed review of executive and director compensation including a proposed updated
Comparator Group for the Company and a detailed compensation review for the Company’s executives, key personnel and directors to
the peer companies’ executive and independent director pay levels and practices, which informed the Company’s compensation
design and decisions for 2020.

Due to the comprehensive review completed at
the end of 2019, the Company did not engage an independent compensation consultant during 2020. The Company expects to engage the services
of an independent compensation advisor in 2021.

A summary of fees paid to our compensation consultant
for 2019 and 2020 are outlined in the following table:

 
 Year
 Consultant
 Executive Compensation Related Fees
 All Other Fees
 
 2020
 N/A
 Nil
 Nil
 
 2019
 Global Governance Advisors
 $60,000
 Nil
 
Under the engagement agreement with GGA, the
Compensation Committee Chair approves all work plans and works with management as needed to complete work assignments, but work products
are delivered directly to the Compensation Committee chair, with distribution to management as required.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 23
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Executive Compensation Philosophy

Our compensation is designed to be competitive
with other North American mining development and operating companies in the uranium and resources sector, but that also have similar scope
and growth trajectories.

NexGen provides a market competitive base salary
and incentive opportunity that targets within a competitive range of market median with the ability to achieve higher compensation in
the case of superior performance.

Each position is evaluated to establish skill
requirements and level of responsibility to provide a basis for internal and external comparisons. The Board and the Compensation Committee
assess a number of aspects when structuring compensation policies and programs and individual compensation levels. These include:

•Internal and external comparisons

•Values and culture

•Long-term interests of our shareholders

•Recommendations made by independent compensation consultants retained by the Compensation Committee, and

•Each Executive’s individual performance and contribution towards meeting the Company goals

Executive Compensation Objectives

The goal of Executive compensation at NexGen
is to attract, motivate, retain and reward a knowledgeable, driven management team and to encourage them to attain and exceed performance
expectations.

NexGen’s compensation practices are based
on a pay-for-performance philosophy in which assessment of performance is based on the Company’s financial and operational performance
as well as individual contributions.

The compensation program is designed to reward
each executive based on corporate and individual performance and is also designed to incent such executives to drive the organization’s
growth in a sustainable and prudent way.

The following key principals guide the Company’s
overall compensation philosophy:

•Attract, retain, motivate and engage high caliber talent whose expertise, skills, performance are critical
to the organization’s success

•Align employees interests with the strategic visions and business objectives of NexGen

•Focus employees on the key business factors that affect long-term shareholder value

•Align compensation with NexGen’s corporate strategy and financial interests as well as the long-term
interests of NexGen shareholders through a belief in equity ownership at all levels of the organization.

•Compensation should be fair and reasonable to shareholders and be set with reference to the local market
and similar positions in comparable companies

The Company has recently been increasing the
size and changing the composition of its senior management team to reflect the Company’s focus on pre-development activities and
is continually assessing its compensation philosophy and practices as the Company grows to development.

Executive Compensation Peer Group and Benchmarking

The Compensation Committee uses a variety of
data sources, including guidance from our independent compensation advisors when retained from time to time, published compensation surveys,
and other market data to identify peer groups for salary comparisons. There is a smaller group of publicly traded, operating, primary
uranium mining companies the Compensation Committee evaluates. This group is limited to make appropriate comparisons of exploration and
development mining companies that closely align with NexGen. As a result, we have supplemented our primary peer group with other peers
we consider appropriate for benchmarking executive compensation and following good governance practices.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 24
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Our peer group selection was based on the following

•Companies within the same industry segment as NexGen

•Companies with uranium as a primary metal/mineral

•Companies with a similar business strategy and scope of operations to NexGen

•Companies based and primarily operating within North America

The table below summarizes the 2019 and 2020 Peer
Group:

 
 Peer Group
 
 Alamos Gold Inc
 Largo Resources Limited
 
 Cameco Company
 Osisko Mining Inc.
 
 Denison Mines Corp
 PolyMet Mining Corp
 
 Energy Fuels Inc
 Pretium Resources Inc.
 
 Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd.
 Seabridge Gold Inc.
 
 Fission Uranium Corp 
 Uranium Energy Corp.
 
 Gold Resource Corporation 
 Ur-Energy Inc.
 
 Ivanhoe Mines Limited 
 
 
Risk Management

The Compensation Committee is responsible for
identifying any risks associated with the Company’s compensation policies and practices and considering the implications of any
such risks and then ensuring such risks are mitigated, particularly those arising from policies and practices that encourage or may encourage
excessive risk-taking by executive officers. The Compensation Committee maintains sufficient discretion and flexibility in implementing
compensation decisions such that unintended consequences in remuneration can be minimized, while still allowing the Compensation Committee
to be responsive to market conditions.

Incentive compensation is paid in relation to
milestones regarding the advancement of our projects which are subject to considerable review, contestability, and assessment. As such,
the Compensation Committee considers that its compensation practices are unlikely to encourage any Executive from taking inappropriate
risks.

The Board’s oversight of our strategic
direction, budgetary process and expenditure limits are used to mitigate compensation policy risks.

Key risk-mitigating features in our compensation
structure include:

•Engagement of an independent compensation advisor

•Annual review of compensation programs

•Establishing annual Corporate and Individual Performance Objectives

•Fixed and variable Compensation

•Short-term and long-term incentives

•Board discretion

•Control features and plan governance

•Appointment of a Human Resources (HR) executive in 2019

Hedging

Pursuant to the Company’s Code of Business
Ethics, the Company’s executive officers and directors are not permitted to purchase financial instruments, including, for greater
certainty, prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars, or units of exchange funds, that are designed to hedge or offset
a decrease in market value of equity securities granted as compensation or held, directly or indirectly, by the executive officer or director.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 25
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

During the financial year ended December 31, 2020,
compensation of the Company’s executive officers consisted of a base salary, an annual short-term incentive award in the form of
a discretionary performance bonus and/or special bonus and a long-term incentive award in the form of stock options, all of which is intended
to be competitive in the aggregate while delivering an appropriate balance between annual compensation (base salary and cash bonuses)
and long-term compensation (stock options).

 

 
 Compensation Element
 Form
 Purpose of Element
 Determination
 
 Base Salary
 Cash
 Forms a baseline level of compensation for role fulfillment commensurate with the experience, skills, and market demand for the executive role and/or incumbent.
 
 Salaries are determined from analysis of similar
 positions within similar companies, as benchmarked against various independent information sources. Individual experience, individual
 performance, level of responsibility and the emphasis on other compensation program elements are also considered when setting salary levels.
 
 
 Short-Term Incentive Award (STI)
 Cash
 To recognize short-term (typically annual) efforts and milestone achievements that are designed to link the achievement of personal and annual performance objectives to the Company’s business strategy and to the enhancement of shareholder value.
 
 STI opportunity for each Executive is set based both
 with reference to competitive market practice, the seniority of the Executive's position and his or her industry experience. Actual bonus
 payments can range from 0% - 100% of the target bonus opportunity, based upon the achievement of corporate and individual performance
 targets, with the opportunity to be awarded more based on extraordinary achievements. Each Executive’s annual performance is measured
 against corporate and individual performance objectives, the weighting of each being dependent upon his or her role in the organization
 and relative influence over corporate performance objectives.
 
 
 Long-Term Incentive Award (LTI)
 
 Stock Options & Cash
 
 
 Designed to motivate executives and employees to
 create and grow sustainable shareholder total return over medium- to long-term performance periods and to facilitate key employee retention.
 
 
 Option award levels are granted at such levels that
 total compensation can achieve above-market levels provided that the Company’s share price achieves superior returns relative to
 the competitive market. The Board sets the term and vesting of options under the LTI.
 Cash award levels payable on the achievement of significant
 long-term milestones that are determined to be in line with the Company’s strategic outlook and long-term shareholder interests.
 
 Benefits and Perquisites
 Indirect cash through broad-based plan
 Provided to attract and retain the key talent required to manage the organization but are not intended to make-up a significant portion of an Executive’s total compensation.
 
 Benefits are provided on a broad basis to the Company’s
 Executives and other eligible employees with limited perquisites to remain market competitive with the peer group. A specific perquisite
 will only be provided when the perquisite provides competitive value and promotes retention of key executives.
 
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 26
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Base Salaries

In establishing base salaries, the Compensation
Committee considered factors such as experience, changes to roles and responsibilities, corporate growth, length of service, and compensation
compared to other employment opportunities for executives. Base salaries are also intended to be internally equitable. Salaries are reviewed
annually by the Board based on recommendations of the Compensation Committee.

Short-Term Incentive (STI) Awards

Short-term incentive awards are based on the
achievement of pre-determined, measurable corporate and/or individual performance objectives. During the financial year ended December
31, 2020, STI awards were either based on performance over the year (a “Performance Bonus”) and/or based on the achievement
of a particular and extraordinary corporate transaction or other milestone (a “Special Bonus”).

A maximum Performance Bonus was determined for
each executive officer as a percentage of salary. The maximum performance bonus for 2020 was 100% of base salary for the CEO and between
30-50% for all other Executives, with the opportunity to be awarded more based on extraordinary achievements. The key performance indicators
and maximum bonus percentage are determined by the Compensation Committee in collaboration with the CEO and HR annually for the ensuing
financial year and recommended to the Board for approval, on an individual basis for each Executive.

2020 COMPANY OBJECTIVES

2020 was an unprecedented year for our industry, stakeholders,
partners and the global community, with the impacts of a global pandemic changing the way corporations, businesses and communities operate
and interact. Built on a foundation of resilience, NexGen successfully drove the project forward during this challenging period for our
global community and industry, and significantly progressed the corporate strategy for the development of the Rook I Project.

Feasibility and Environmental Studies

NexGen continued its advancement of work programs
on the Feasibility Study (“FS”) and Environmental Assessment (“EA”) in line with the Federal and Provincial Health
Authorities guidelines. Results from the various work programs were incorporated into the NI43-101 Feasibility Study.

These key achievements and milestones from 2020
meet the Company’s objectives of setting a new elite standard in global mine and environmental management and community advancement,
and NexGen is well positioned to advance to the next stage of this exciting project.

Covid 19 Response

During the spring of 2020, NexGen implemented a Community
Pandemic Response program to aid the communities of La Loche and Clearwater River Dene Nation (“CRDN”) who were heavily impacted
with a Covid-19 outbreak that resulted in town closure. NexGen partnered with the local Chief and Community Leaders to mitigate further
transmission and risk with the following measures:

•implemented a modified Breakfast Program by working with local school administration and grocery stores
to ensure over 1,000 students continued to receive healthy and nutritious breakfasts during school closures.

•Actively supported the community through the employment of local Pandemic Coordinators to assist in key
efforts in containing the pandemic and community safety coordination.

•Partnered with the Saskatchewan Mining Association (“SMA”) to ensure residents of La Loche
and CRDN had necessary Personal Protection Equipment (“PPE”) to reduce the spread of Covid-19.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 27
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Financial

A key milestone for NexGen was the US$30 Million
Financing and Investor Rights Agreement with Queens Road Capital (“QRC”). QRC is a leading financier to the global resources
sector and holds a portfolio of companies that represent elite ESG standards, including NexGen. The partnership with QRC further strengthens
NexGen’s commitment to the optimal delivery of the Rook I Project.

Talent Acquisition

In the Summer of 2020, NexGen was pleased to announce
the appointment of Anthony (Tony) George as Chief Project Officer. Mr. George is a well-respected and highly regarded mining professional
who has extensive experience in project execution through all aspects of the mining life cycle. The addition of Mr. George to the Executive
Leadership Team cemented NexGen’s commitment to developing a Canadian energy project that will deliver significant benefits to Canada
and the global community.

Community

In addition to pandemic planning, NexGen remained focused on important
community initiatives that set the stage for deeper engagement and recognition for the communities where we operate.

•NexGen continued meaningful and genuine consultation with local communities in the Rook I Project area.
The Study Agreements entered into in 2019 enabled NexGen to formally engage with the communities to identify potential impacts to Aboriginal
and treat rights and socio-economic interests and to identify potential avoidance and accommodation measures in relation to the Project.

•NexGen sponsored and produced the documentary Dëne Sųłiné - Our People which explored
the Dëne Sųłiné language in La Loche and the Clearwater River Dene Nation and was recognized by the Cannes Corporate
Media & TV Awards with a gold medal in 2020

•NexGen was awarded the Paragon Award from the Regina Chamber of Commerce in recognition for its community
involvement.

2020 Assessment of Objectives

During the financial year ended December 31,
2020, the Chairman of the Compensation Committee met with the Chief Executive Officer periodically to discuss Company goals and performance
and to discuss the performance of executive officers individually. The Compensation Committee works in conjunction with the Chief Executive
Officer to set compensation, including proposed salary adjustments, performance and/or special bonuses and stock option awards for executive
officers.

The Compensation Committee made recommendations
relating to the compensation of Executives to the Board. Based on these recommendations, the
Board made decisions concerning the nature and scope of the compensation to be paid to the Executives. The Compensation Committee based
its recommendations to the Board on its compensation philosophy and the Compensation Committee’s assessment of corporate and individual
performance, recruiting and retention needs.

In 2021 the Compensation Committee established
a set of criteria and objectives which will be the basis for the 2021 performance rewards.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 28
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Awards

Incentive Stock Options

Stock options are used by the Company to provide
alignment between long-term share price performance and remuneration for Executives. Recognizing that the Company is at a relatively early
stage of development, the reliance on stock option awards can help preserve cash resources which allows the Company greater flexibility
in executing its strategy. Stock options are granted on a discretionary basis, based on the Board and the Compensation Committee’s
assessment of each individual’s performance. Generally, the number of stock options granted to any Executive is a function of the
contribution and achievements of the Executive to the business and affairs of the Company, the level of authority and responsibility of
the Executive, the number of stock options the Company has already granted to the Executive, and such other factors that the Compensation
Committee may consider relevant.

Stock options are governed by the Company’s
amended and restated incentive stock option plan and awards are generally considered and made annually following the Company’s annual
shareholder meeting and at fiscal year-end. Existing stock options have a five-year term and are exercisable at the price determined by
the Board, subject to applicable regulatory requirements at the time of grant.

Long-Term Retention Incentive Program

In 2020 NexGen introduced a Long-Term Retention
Cash Based Incentive program. The program was put in place to retain select executives and technical talent material to the achievement
of significant long-term milestones in line with the Company’s strategic outlook and long-term shareholder interests. The rewards
are payable on the achievement of specific milestones.

2020 Compensation Mix

In 2020, the Company’s executive compensation
program emphasized at risk performance-based compensation. For the CEO, 87% of the overall compensation award is performance based, with
75% of his total compensation being at risk in the form of stock options which are linked to long-term share performance. For the remaining
Executives, on average, 70% of the overall compensation is performance based, with 60% of their total compensation being at risk in the
form of stock options which are linked to long-term share performance. The pie charts below illustrate the executive compensation mix
in 2020.

 

 

The CEO held stock options equal to 1.05% of
the total common shares outstanding, as of December 31, 2020.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 29
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Summary Compensation Table

For the financial year ended December 31,
2020, the Company had five Named Executive Officers: Leigh Curyer, Tony George, Travis McPherson, Troy Boisjoli and Gillian McCombie (collectively,
the “Executives”). Mr. George joined the company as Chief Project Officer on June 22, 2020. The following table sets
forth the compensation paid to each of the Executives for each of the Company’s three most recently completed financial years (2018,
2019 and 2020).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Name and principal position
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Salary
 ($)
 
 
 
 
 Share- based awards
 ($)
 
 
 
 
 Option-based awards
 ($)(1)
 
 Non-equity incentive
 plan compensation ($)
 
 
 
 
 
 Pension value
 ($)
 
 
 
 
 
 All other compensation
 ($)
 
 
 
 
 
 Total compensation
 ($)
 
 
 Annual incentive
 plans
 ($)
 (2)
 
 Long-term incentive plans
 ($)(3)
 
 
 Leigh Curyer 
 President, Chief Executive
 Officer & Director (4)
 
 
 2020
 2019
 2018
 
 
 
 750,000
 695,000
 625,000
 
 
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 
 4,294,052
 2,001,192
 3,668,725
 
 
 
 708,750
 622,500
 850,000(7)
 
 
 
 Nil
 Nil Nil
 
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 
 Nil
 NilNil
 
 
 5,752,802
 3,826,010
 5,040,741
 
 
 
 Tony George
 Chief Project Officer
 (5)
 
 2020
 2019
 2018
 
 175,000
 N/A
 N/A
 
 Nil
 N/A
 N/A
 
 611,587
 N/A
 N/A
 
 63,875
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil Nil Nil
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 
 850,462
 N/A
 N/A
 
 
 Travis McPherson 
 Vice President, Corporate
 Development
 
 2020
 2019
 2018
 
 300,000
 200,000
 175,000
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,235,954
 770,514
 970,997
 
 140,250
 150,000
 185,000(8)
 
 
 Nil
 NilNil
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,676,204
 1,182,404
 1,266,828
 
 
 Troy Boisjoli
 Vice President, Operations & Project Development
 
 
 2020
 2019
 2018
 
 
 
 200,000
 167,500
 160,000
 
 
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 
 N/A
 103,450
 78,084
 
 
 
 33,000
 49,266
 57,500(9)
 
 
 
 Nil
 NilNil
 
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 
 Nil
 Nil Nil
 
 
 233,000
 379,374
 549,333
 
 
 
 Gillian McCombie
 Vice-President, Human Resources(6)
 
 2020
 2019
 2018
 
 270,000
 163,942
 N/A
 
 Nil
 Nil
 N/A
 
 337,662
 484,608
 N/A
 
 114,750
 75,000
 N/A
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 722,412
 501,613
 N/A
 
Notes:

(1)Option-based compensation is valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model was selected
as it is widely used in estimating option-based compensation values by Canadian public companies. The Black-Scholes model resulted in
a value of an option on each of the following dates as follows:

December 11, 2020 - $1.66; June 12, 2020 - $0.89; December
24, 2019 - $0.82; June 12, 2019 - $1.03; December 31, 2018 - $1.58; June 8, 2018 - $1.92; April 13, 2018 - $1.62.

(2)Includes bonus amounts paid to Executives by the end of each financial year, comprising a Performance
Bonus and/or Special Bonus.

(3)The Company has a Long-Term Incentive Retention Program to retain and award key executives. For the financial year referenced, milestones
are still in progress and not yet payable.

(4)Mr. Curyer does not receive any remuneration in his role as a Director of NexGen.

(5)Mr. George was appointed Chief Project Officer on June 22, 2020. His bonus for 2020 was pro-rated based on his start date

(6)Ms. McCombie was appointed Vice President, Human Resources on May 6, 2019. Her bonus for 2019 was pro-rated based on her start date.

(7)Represents aggregate bonus amounts paid during 2018 and consists of an annual Performance Bonus ($500,000)
awarded for meeting or exceeding pre-determined performance goals and a Special Bonus in respect of the announcement of an updated resource
estimate at the Rook I Project and completion of the Pre-feasibility Study. There is no assurance that one or more Special Bonuses will
be paid in the future.

(8)Represents aggregate bonus amounts paid during 2018 and consists of an annual Performance Bonus ($60,000)
awarded for meeting or exceeding pre-determined performance goals and a Special Bonus in respect of the announcement of an updated resource
estimate at the Rook I Project and completion of the Pre-feasibility Study. There is no assurance that one or more Special Bonuses will
be paid in the future.

(9)Represents aggregate bonus amounts paid during 2018 and consists of an annual Performance Bonus ($27,500)
awarded for meeting or exceeding pre-determined performance goals and a Special Bonus in respect of the announcement of an updated resource
estimate at the Rook I Project and completion of the Pre-feasibility Study. There is no assurance that one or more Special Bonuses will
be paid in the future.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 30
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Incentive Plan Awards

Outstanding Share-Based Awards and Option-Based
Awards

The following table sets forth all share-based
and option-based awards outstanding at December 31, 2020 for each Executive Officer. All option-based awards vest in one-third increments
annually, based on the anniversary of the date of grant and have five (5) year terms.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Name
 Option-based Awards
 Share-based Awards
 
 
 
 Number of securities underlying
 unexercised options
 (#)
 
 
 Option exercise price
 ($)
 
 
 Option expiration
 date
 
 
 Value of unexercised
 in-the-money options (1)
 ($)
 
 
 Number of shares or units of shares
 that have not vested
 (#)
 
 
 Market or payout
 value of share- based awards that have not vested
 ($)
 
 Leigh Curyer
 1,800,000
 2.65
 23-Jun-21
 1,548,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,000,000
 2.24
 15-Dec-21
 1,270,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,000,000
 3.39
 14-Dec-22
 120,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,500,000
 2.85
 8-Jun-23
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 500,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 550,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 750,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 1,192,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,500,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 2,880,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,100,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,881,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 2,000,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 540,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Tony George
 500,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 855,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 27,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Travis McPherson
 250,000
 2.65
 23-Jun-21
 215,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 2.24
 15-Dec-21
 381,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 3.39
 14-Dec-22
 36,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 2.85
 8-Jun-23
 198,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 275,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 350,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 556,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 500,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 960,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 550,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 940,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 450,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 121,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Troy Boisjoli
 500,000
 2.65
 23-Jun-21
 430,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 2.24
 15-Dec-21
 254,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 3.39
 14-Dec-22
 24,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 50,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 55,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 159,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Gillian McCombie
 350,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 556,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 150,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 288,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 171,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 150,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 40,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
Note:

(1)The value of unexercised in-the-money options is calculated by multiplying the
difference between the December 31, 2020 closing price of the common shares on the TSX of $3.51 and the option exercise price, by the
number of outstanding options. These stock options have not been, and may never be, exercised and actual gains, if any, on exercise will
depend on the value of the common shares on the date of exercise.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 31
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Incentive Plan Awards - Value Vested or
Earned During the Year

During the financial year ended December 31,
2020, the following incentive plan awards vested or were earned for the Executive Officers:

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Name
 
 Option-based awards - Value
 vested during the year (1)
 ($)
 
 Shared-based awards - Value vested
 during the year
 ($)
 
 Non-equity
 incentive plan compensation - Value earned during the year
 ($)
 
 Leigh Curyer
 1,148,334
 Nil
 708,750
 
 Tony George
 Nil
 Nil
 63,875(2)
 
 Travis McPherson
 413,334
 Nil
 140,250
 
 Troy Boisjoli
 18,334
 Nil
 33,000
 
 Gillian McCombie
 96,500
 Nil
 114,750
 
Notes:

(1)The aggregate dollar value that would have been realized if the options under the option-based award
had been exercised on the vesting date.

(2)Mr. George was appointed Chief Project Officer on June 21, 2020. His bonus for 2020 was pro-rated based
on his start date.

Termination and Change of Control Benefits

The Executive Employment Agreements establish
base compensation comprised of base salary and eligibility for an annual performance-based cash short-term incentive award. Executives
are also eligible to participate in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive compensation plans in the form of stock options
and long-term retention incentive program in the form of cash payments based off milestone achievements, at the discretion of the Board.
The Executive Employment Agreements are effective until such time as they are terminated in accordance with their terms.

The Executive Employment Agreements also provide
for termination payments in the event that (i) the Executive’s employment is terminated
without cause (including constructive dismissal), or (ii) within 12 months of a “change of control”, the Executive is terminated
without cause, resigns, or resigns with good reason.

In each case, the terminated Executive is entitled
to (i) reimbursement of any outstanding expenses, (ii) accrued annual salary and vacation pay to the date of termination, (iii) any Annual
Bonus earned but not paid at the date of termination, and (iv) a termination payment equal to the product by multiplying: (a) the sum
of (1) his or her annual base salary; and (2) his or her highest bonus (including both Performance Bonuses and Special Bonuses) paid or
payable in the preceding three years, in each case, calculated on a monthly basis, by (b) a period of between three (3) and 36 months,
with longer periods being applicable only in the case of a change of control (the “Severance Period”). Those executives
eligible for the long- term retention incentive award will also be payable in the event of a change of control. The Executive is also
entitled to the continuation of benefits during the Severance Period, or in the event the Company is unable to continue such benefits,
payment in lieu equal to the cost of such benefits to the Company.

All outstanding options held by the terminated
Executive would also vest immediately and continue to be exercisable until the earlier of the expiry of their term or such period imposed
by an applicable regulatory body.

The estimated incremental payments (excluding
the Final Wages and payment in lieu of the cost of benefits) payable by the Company to each Executive upon termination without cause or
related to a change of control, assuming the triggering event occurred on December 31, 2020, are as follows.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 32
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 
 Name
 Triggering Event
 Estimated Incremental Payment ($)
 
 
 Leigh Curyer (1)
 President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 2,400,000
 9,800,000
 
 
 Tony George (2)
 Chief Project Officer
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 238,875
 358,313
 
 
 Travis McPherson (3)
 Senior Vice President, Corporate Development
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 485,000
 2,170,000
 
 
 Troy Boisjoli (4)
 Vice President, Operations & Project Development
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 50,000
 100,000
 
 
 Gillian McCombie (5)
 Vice-President, Human Resources
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 384,750
 924,750
 
Notes:

(1)Mr. Curyer holds an aggregate of 11,150,000 stock options, having an aggregate in-the-money value, as
of December 31, 2020, of $10,971,500. Mr. Curyer’s Change of Control benefit includes the LTI retention incentive payable for specific
long-term milestones achieved over a stipulated sliding scale timeline.

(2)Mr. George holds an aggregate of 600,000 stock options, having an aggregate in-the-money value, as of
December 31, 2020, of $882,000

(3)Mr. McPherson holds an aggregate of 3,250,000 stock options, having an aggregate in-the-money value,
as of December 31, 2020, of $3,683,500. Mr. McPherson’s Change of Control benefit include a LTI retention incentive payable for
specific milestones achieved over a stipulated long-term sliding scale timeline.

(4)Mr. Boisjoli holds an aggregate of 1,050,000 stock options, having an aggregate in-the-money value,
as of December 31, 2020, of 922,000.

(5)Ms. McCombie holds an aggregate of 750,000stock options, having an aggregate in-the-money value, as
of December 31, 2020, of $1,056,000. Ms. McCombie’s Change of Control benefit include a LTI retention incentive payable for specific
long-term milestones achieved over a stipulated sliding scale timeline.

There are no significant conditions or obligations
that apply to the receipt of the foregoing incremental payments.

Director Compensation

The following section pertains to the compensation
arrangements the Company had with each director, namely Warren Gilman, Karri Howlett, Christopher McFadden, Brad Wall, Richard Patricio,
Trevor Thiele and Sybil Veenman during the year ended December 31, 2020. Director fees were comprised of an annual retainer for serving
on the Board and Board Committees. Executives do not receive additional compensation for serving as directors. Leigh Curyer is a director
but also an Executive and receives no additional compensation for his role as a director.

 
 Board Position
 Annualized Retainer
($)
 
 Board Chair Retainer
 90,000
 
 Board Member Retainer
 70,000
 
 Audit Committee Chair
 20,000
 
 Compensation Committee Chair
 15,000
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee Chair
 5,000
 
 Sustainability Committee Chair
 5,000
 
In addition to the annualized fees disclosed
in the table above, each non-executive director was granted Options, under NexGen’s Stock Option Plan. The value of these grants
for 2020 is provided in the table below. The board also adopted a Director Share Ownership Guideline and the details are set out under
Share Ownership Guideline.

The following table sets forth the compensation
provided to the directors of the Company for the financial year ended December 31, 2020.

Compensation paid to Leigh Curyer for the financial
year ended December 31, 2020 is set out above under the heading “Summary Compensation Table”. Mr. Curyer did not receive any
remuneration in his role as a director of the Company.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 33
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 Name
 
 Fees earned
 ($)
 
 Share-based awards
 ($)
 
 Option-based awards(1)
 ($) 
 
 Non-equity incentive
 plan compensation
 ($)
 
 Pension value
 ($)
 
 All other compensation
 ($)
 Total ($)
 
 Warren Gilman
 70,000
 Nil
 637,092 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 697,092
 
 Karri Howlett 
 75,000
 Nil
 637,092 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 702,092
 
 Christopher McFadden
 90,000
 Nil
 637,092
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 727,092
 
 Richard Patricio
 90,000
 Nil
 637,092
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 717,092
 
 Trevor Thiele
 90,000
 Nil
 637,092
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 717,092
 
 Sybil Veenman 
 70,000
 Nil
 637,092
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 697,092
 
 Brad Wall
 70,000
 Nil
 637,092
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 697,092
 
 

Note:

(1)Option-based compensation is valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
This model was selected as it is widely used in estimating option-based compensation values by Canadian public companies. The Black-Scholes
model resulted in the following option value on each of the following dates: December 11, 2020 - $1.66; June 12, 2020 - $0.89

Incentive Plan Awards

Outstanding Share-Based Awards and Option-Based
Awards

The following table sets forth all share-based
and option-based awards outstanding at December 31, 2020 for each of the Company’s directors. All option-based awards vest in one-third
increments annually, based on the anniversary of the date of grant and have five-year terms.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Name
 Option-based Awards
 Share-based Awards
 
 
 
 Number of securities underlying
 unexercised options
 (#)
 
 
 Option exercise price
 ($)
 
 
 Option
 expiration date
 
 
 Value of unexercised in- the-money
 options(1)
 ($)
 
 
 Number of shares
 or units of shares that have not vested
 (#)
 
 
 Market or payout
 value of share- based awards that
 have not vested ($)
 
 
 Christopher McFadden
 
 350,000
 2.65
 23-Jun-21
 301,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 2.24
 15-Dec-21
 317,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.39
 14-Dec-22
 30,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 2.85
 08-Jun-23
 198,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 220,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 397,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 192,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 427,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 67,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Warren Gilman
 250,000
 3.39
 14-Dec-22
 30,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 2.85
 08-Jun-23
 198,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 220,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 397,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 384,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 427,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 67,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Richard Patricio
 350,000
 2.65
 23-Jun-21
 301,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 2.24
 15-Dec-21
 317,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.39
 14-Dec-22
 30,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 450,000
 2.85
 08-Jun-23
 297,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 220,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 397,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 192,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 427,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 67,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 34
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Name
 Option-based Awards
 Share-based Awards
 
 
 Number of securities underlying
 unexercised options
 (#)
 
 Option exercise price
 ($)
 
 Option
 expiration date
 
 Value of unexercised in- the-money
 options(1)
 ($)
 
 Number of shares
 or units of shares that have not vested
 (#)
 
 Market or payout
 value of share- based awards that
 have not vested ($)
 
 Trevor Thiele
 350,000
 2.65
 23-Jun-21
 301,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 2.24
 15-Dec-21
 317,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.39
 14-Dec-22
 30,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 450,000
 2.85
 08-Jun-23
 297,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 220,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 397,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 192,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 427,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 67,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Karri Howlett
 300,000
 2.49
 21-Aug-23
 306,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 220,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 397,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 384,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 427,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 67,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Sybil Veenman
 300,000
 2.49
 21-Aug-23
 306,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 2.41
 31-Dec-23
 220,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 397,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 384,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 427,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 67,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Brad Wall 
 500,000
 2.27
 21-Mar-24
 620,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 397,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 384,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 427,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 67,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
Note:

(1)The pre-tax value of unexercised in-the-money options is calculated by multiplying
the difference between the closing price of the common shares on the TSX on December 31, 2020, which was $3.51, and the option exercise
price, by the number of outstanding options. These stock options have not been, and may never be, exercised and actual gains, if any,
on exercise will depend on the value of the common shares on the date of exercise.

 

Incentive Plan Awards - Value Vested or Earned During the Year

During the financial year ended December 31,
2020, the following incentive plan awards vested or were earned for the directors:

 

 
 
 
 
 Name
 
 Option-based awards - Value
 vested during the year (1)
 ($)
 
 Shared-based awards
 - Value vested during the year
 ($)
 
 Non-equity incentive plan compensation
 - Value earned during the year
 ($)
 
 Christopher McFadden
 137,666
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Warren Gilman
 202,001
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Richard Patricio
 137,666
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Trevor Thiele
 137,666
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Karri Howlett
 202,001
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Sybil Veenman
 202,001
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Brad Wall
 128,667
 Nil
 Nil
 
Note:

(1)The aggregate dollar value that would have been realized if the options under the option-based award
had been exercised on the vesting date.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 35
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

 

 

 

 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

 
 DISCLOSURE
 37
 
 SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS
 42
 
 INDEBTEDNESS OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 43
 
 APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR
 43
 
 OTHER MATTERS
 44
 
 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 44
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 36
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

DISCLOSURE

The Disclosure Instrument requires that the Company
annually disclose its corporate governance practices with reference to a series of corporate governance practices outlined in National
Policy 58-201 - Corporate Governance Guidelines (the “Guidelines”).

The following is a discussion of each of the
Company’s corporate governance practices for which disclosure is required by the Disclosure Instrument. Unless otherwise indicated,
the Board believes that its corporate governance practices are consistent with those recommended by the Guidelines.

Director Independence

For the purposes of the Disclosure Instrument,
a director is independent if he or she has no direct or indirect material relationship with the Company. A “material relationship”
is one which could, in the view of the Board, reasonably be expected to interfere with his or her ability to exercise independent judgment.
Certain specified relationships will, in all circumstances, be considered, for the purposes of the Disclosure Instrument, to be material
relationships.

As of the date of this Circular, the Board consists
of eight individuals, six of whom are independent. If the Board remains at eight members and all of management’s nominees are elected
as directors at the Meeting, the Board will consist of eight individuals, six of whom are independent. Accordingly, a
majority of the Board is independent.

The current independent directors are: Warren
Gilman, Karri Howlett, Christopher McFadden, Richard Patricio, Trevor Thiele and Sybil Veenman.

Mr. McFadden has been appointed as the Chairman
of the Board and is responsible for, among other things, providing leadership to ensure that the Board functions independently of management
and overseeing the governance obligations of the Board and its committees generally.

Messrs. Curyer and Wall are not independent for
the purposes of the Disclosure Instrument. Mr. Curyer is the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Wall’s
consulting company, Flying W Consulting is engaged in work on behalf of the Company.

In-camera sessions of the independent directors
are scheduled for the conclusion of each meeting of the Board. Additional meetings for the independent directors are held as considered
necessary. Moreover, the independent directors have the opportunity to hold discussions in the absence of management through their participation
in the Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee. During the financial year ended December 31, 2020, no meetings of the independent
directors were convened.

Other Directorships

Currently, the following directors serve as directors
of the following reporting issuers or reporting issuer equivalents:

 

 
 Name of Director
 Reporting Issuer(s) or Equivalent(s)
 
 Leigh Curyer
 IsoEnergy Ltd. (1)
 
 Warren Gilman
 
 Chaarat Gold Holdings Limited
 Aurania Resources Ltd.
 Queen’s Road Capital Investment Ltd.
 Gold Royalty Corp.
 
 Karri Howlett
 Nil
 
 Christopher McFadden
 IsoEnergy Ltd. (1)
 
 Richard Patricio
 
 IsoEnergy Ltd. (1) (2)
 Sterling Metals Corp.
 Sixty Six Capital Inc.
 Mindset Pharma Inc.
 Toro Energy Limited (2)
 
 Trevor Thiele
 IsoEnergy Ltd. (1)
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 37
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 
 Name of Director
 Reporting Issuer(s) or Equivalent(s)
 
 Sybil Veenman
 
 Royal Gold Inc.
 Major Drilling Group International Inc.
 
 Brad Wall
 
 Whitecap Resources Inc.
 Maxim Power Corp
 Dye & Durham
 
 Don Roberts
 
 Queen’s Road Capital Investment Ltd.
 CK Asset Holdings
 CK Life Sciences Int'l
 HK Electric Investments
 
 

Notes:

(1)NexGen holds approximately 51% of the outstanding common shares of IsoEnergy. Accordingly,
IsoEnergy is an affiliate of NexGen.

(2)Mr. Patricio sits on the board of Toro Energy Ltd. In his capacity as President and
CEO of Mega Uranium Ltd. and IsoEnergy Limited in his capacity as a director of NexGen., of which Mega Uranium Ltd. Is also a shareholder.
He has three other directorships which are distinct from his principal occupation.

Attendance

The Board is committed to scheduling regular
meetings of the Board and its committees and encouraging attendance by directors. The Board and its committees held the following number
of meetings in the financial year ended December 31, 2020:

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 2020
 
 Board
 4
 
 Audit Committee
 4
 
 Compensation Committee
 4 (1)
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee
 2 (1)
 
 Sustainability Committee
 3
 
Note:

(1)Each of the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee held several informal
meetings through- out the year.

 

The attendance of the current directors at such
meetings was as follows:

 
 
 
 
 Director
 
 
 Board Meetings Attended
 Audit Committee Meetings Attended
 Compensation Committee Meetings Attended
 
 Nomination
 and Governance Committee Meetings
 Attended
 
 
 Sustainability
 Committee
 
 
 Leigh Curyer
 4 of 4
 N/A
 N/A
 N/A
 3 of 3
 
 Warren Gilman
 4 of 4
 4 of 4
 N/A
 N/A
 3 of 3
 
 Karri Howlett 
 4 of 4
 N/A
 N/A
 N/A
 3 of 3
 
 Christopher McFadden
 4 of 4
 4 of 4
 N/A
 N/A
 3 of 3
 
 Richard Patricio
 4 of 4
 4 of 4
 4 of 4
 2 of 2
 N/A
 
 Trevor Thiele
 4 of 4
 4 of 4
 4 of 4
 2 of 2
 N/A
 
 Sybil Veenman
 4 of 4
 N/A
 4 of 4
 2 of 2
 N/A
 
 Brad Wall
 4 of 4
 N/A
 N/A
 N/A
 N/A
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 38
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Charter of the Board of Directors

The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship
of the Company. The Board discharges this responsibility directly and through delegation of selected and specific responsibilities to
committees of the Board, and the Chairman of the Board, all as more particularly described in the Charter of the Board of Directors (the
“Charter”) attached to this Circular as Schedule A.

Position Descriptions

The Board has adopted a written position description
for the roles of the Chairman of the Board and the CEO. The Chairman of the Board’s role is set out in the Charter as being responsible
for the management, development and effective performance of the Board and ensuring the Board fulfils its duties as required by law and
as set forth in the Charter.

The CEO is responsible for leading the Company
in meeting its short-term operational and long-term strategic goals. The CEO is expected to report to the Board on a regular basis concerning
the Company’s progress towards its goals, strategies and objectives.

Although the Board has developed written mandates
for each of the Board committees, the Board has not yet developed written position descriptions for the chairs of each Board committee.
The written mandate of each committee however delineates the role and responsibilities of each committee chair.

Orientation and Continuing Education

Given the current size of the Company and its
stage of development, and as each new director will have a different skill set and professional background, specific orientation and training
activities are tailored to the particular needs and experience of each director and consist primarily of meetings with members of the
executive management team.

The Board provides continuing education for directors
on an ad hoc basis in respect of issues that are necessary for them to meet their obligations as directors. All of the directors
are actively involved in their respective areas of expertise and have full access to management. Directors are periodically provided with
the opportunity to visit the Company’s properties to become familiar with the Company’s operations. Presentations by management
and the Company’s advisors are also organized, as needed, to provide ongoing director education.

Ethical Business Conduct

As part of its responsibility for the stewardship
of the Company, the Board seeks to foster a culture of ethical conduct by requiring the Company to carry out its business in accordance
with high business and moral standards and applicable legal and financial requirements. The Board has formalized this in its Code of Business
Ethics (the “Code”). A copy of the Code is available under the Company’s profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com
and it is on the website at www.nexgenenergy.ca.

The Company’s Corporate Secretary is responsible
for communicating the Code to directors, officers, and employees. Compliance with the Code is maintained primarily through the reporting
process within the Company’s organizational structure. The Audit Committee monitors overall compliance with the Code and the Chief
Financial Officer reports any alleged breaches of the Code to the Audit Committee. The Company’s Chief Financial Officer and the
Audit Committee Chair then report to the Board at regular quarterly meetings of the Board on any issues or concerns that have been raised.

In addition, the Company has adopted a “whistleblower”
policy (the “Whistleblower Policy”) so that any employee of the Company or its subsidiaries may submit confidential
or anonymous concerns regarding accounting or auditing matters without fear of dismissal or retaliation of any kind. The Whistleblower
Policy allows employees to direct their concerns to the Chair of the Audit Committee.

Certain members of the Board are directors or
officers of, or have significant shareholdings in, other mineral resource companies and, to the extent that such other companies may participate
in ventures in which the Company may participate, the directors of the Company may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding
terms respecting such participation. Where such a conflict of interest involves a particular Board member (i.e. where a Board member has
an interest in a material contract or material transaction involving the Company), such Board member will be required to disclose his
or her interest to the Board and refrain from voting at any Board meeting of the Company which considers such contract or transaction,
in accordance with applicable law. To ensure a consistent process for addressing actual and potential conflicts of interest, the Company
has adopted a policy governing conflicts of interest and related party transactions which prescribes a formal procedure and internal reporting
process for addressing potential conflicts in a timely fashion.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 39
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

In rare circumstances, if deemed appropriate,
the Company may establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may
have a conflict.

Nomination of Directors

The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible
for assisting the Board in respect of the nomination of directors and identifying new candidates for appointment to the Board.

The Nomination and Governance Committee establishes
criteria for Board membership and composition and makes recommendations to the Board thereon. The Nomination and Governance Committee
also makes recommendations for the assignment of Board members to Board committees and oversees a process for director succession. In
that regard, the Nomination and Governance Committee is also responsible for assessing the competencies and skills of existing directors
and those required for nominees to the Board, with a view to ensuring that the Board is comprised of directors with the necessary skills
and experience to facilitate effective decision-making. The Nomination and Governance Committee may retain external consultants or advisors
to conduct searches for appropriate potential director candidates if necessary.

Investor Rights Agreement

In accordance with the terms of the Investor
Rights Agreement between CEF Holding Limited (“CEF”), CEF (Capital Markets) Limited
(“CEFCM”), Next Global Holdings Limited (“Next Global”), Sprinkle Ring Investment Limited (“Sprinkle
Ring”, and together with CEFCM and Next Global, the “Investors”) and NexGen, CEF has, among other rights,
certain rights to nominate an individual for election to the Board on behalf of the Investors. Under the Investor Rights Agreement, CEF
is entitled to nominate for election one member of the Board (the “CEF Nominee”) for so long as the percentage of outstanding
common shares of the Company beneficially owned directly or indirectly by CEF and the Investors, collectively, is more than 15% (on a
partially-diluted basis) of the Company’s issued and outstanding common shares. The CEF Nominee may
be a director, officer or employee of CEF or its affiliates, or another person, at CEF’s discretion. The Company currently
has eight directors, but will be expanding the Board to nine directors with the appointment of Mr. Don Roberts as the CEF Nominee.

Advance Notice Provisions

On May 21, 2015, shareholders approved an amendment
to the Company’s articles to implement advance notice provisions for the nomination of directors (the “Advance Notice Provisions”).
Under the Advance Notice Provisions, a director nomination must be made, in the case of an annual meeting of shareholders, not less than
30 days nor more than 65 days prior to the date of the annual meeting of shareholders, and in the case of a special meeting of shareholders
(which is not also an annual meeting of shareholders) called for the purpose of electing directors (whether or not called for other purposes),
not later than the close of business on the fifteenth (15th) day following the day on which the first public announcement of the date
of the special meeting of shareholders was made. The Advance Notice Provisions also set forth the information that a shareholder must
include in the notice to the Company. See the Company’s amended articles which are available under the Company’s profile on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com for full details (filed on May 26, 2015). No director nominations have
been made by shareholders in connection with the Meeting under the terms of the Advance Notice Provisions, and as such the only nominations
for directors at the Meeting are the nominees set forth above under “Business to be Transacted at the Meeting -
Election of Directors”.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 40
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Majority Voting

The Company has adopted a majority voting policy
which requires that each director nominee of the Company must be elected by at least a majority (50% + 1 vote) of the votes cast with
regard to his or her election. Any director nominee who receives a greater number of votes “withheld” from his or her election
than votes “for” such election must promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board, to be effective upon acceptance by
the Board. The Nomination and Governance Committee will make a determination as to whether or not to accept the tendered resignation and
make a recommendation to the Board thereon. The Board, in turn, will determine whether or not to accept the tendered resignation within
90 days of the shareholder meeting. The Nomination and Governance Committee will accept the tendered resignation absent exceptional circumstances
and the resignation will be effective when accepted by the Board. The Company shall promptly issue a news release with the Board’s
decision which, in the event the resignation is not accepted, must fully state the reason for that decision. Subject to any corporate
law restrictions, the Board may fill any resulting vacancy through the appointment of a new director. The director nominee in question
may not participate in any committee or Board votes concerning his or her resignation. This policy will not apply in circumstances involving
contested director elections.

Board Committees

The Board delegates certain responsibilities
to the following four committees of the Board: (i) the Audit Committee; (ii) the Compensation Committee; (iii) the Nomination and Governance
Committee; and (iv) Sustainability Committee. The Board has adopted a written charter for
each of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Nomination and Governance Committee
and the Sustainability Committee. From time to time, the Board also appoints ad hoc committees to assist in specific matters. The
Board delegates specific mandates to such ad hoc committees if and when they are established.

Under National Instrument 52-110 - Audit Committees
(“NI 52-110”), companies are required to provide disclosure with respect to their Audit Committee, including the
text of the Audit Committee’s charter, the composition of the Audit Committee and the fees paid to the external auditor. This information
is provided in the Company’s annual information form dated March 19, 2021 (the “AIF”) under the heading “Audit
Committee Disclosure” with respect to the financial year ended December 31, 2020.

The AIF is available for review by the public
on the SEDAR website located at www.sedar.com under the Company’s profile and may also be obtained free of charge by sending a written
request to the Company at the Company’s head office located at Suite 3150, 1021 West Hastings Street, Vancouver, British Columbia
V6E 0C3.

Assessments

In 2015, the Nomination and Governance Committee
established a formal process for assessing the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, its committees and individual directors. As part
of this process, directors completed a questionnaire which provided for quantitative and qualitative ratings of their and the Board’s
performance in key areas and provided subjective comment in each of those areas.

The Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee
reviewed the results of the self-assessment process, identified areas requiring follow-up and reported to the Board on the results of
the assessment process. Action plans to follow-up on specific issues are monitored by the Nomination and Governance Committee.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 41
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Term Limits and Diversity

In the fall of 2014, the Canadian Securities
Administrators introduced “comply or explain” policies requiring companies to either adopt or explain why they have not adopted
(a) policies with respect to term limits for directors; and (b) policies and targets designed to increase participation by woman in board
matters and in executive positions. The Company looks to recruit and select candidates for the Board and for management positions that
represent both gender diversity and business understanding and experience and has not yet adopted formal policies or targets on either
term limits or diversity.

In April 2018, the Board of Directors adopted
a policy regarding the diversity of the directors and management of the Company. The Board recognizes the valuable contributions made
to board deliberations and management by people of different gender, experience and background, and the Board believes
that it currently focuses on hiring the best quality individuals for the position, while also encouraging diversity on the Board and in
executive officer positions. The Company has not set a targeted number or percentage of female representation
on its Board or for executive officer positions; however, the Board is mindful of the benefit of diversity in the
Company’s leadership positions and the need to maximize the effectiveness of the Board and management in their decision-making
abilities. The Company's support for diversity is already strongly ingrained in NexGen’s culture and values. In searches for new
directors or officers, the Board is committed to conducting a search for suitable candidates and will
consider the level of female representation and diversity within its leadership ranks in its
search process.

Subject to the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement,
the Nomination and Governance Committee identifies those candidates to the Board and management
of the Company that possess the skills and greatest ability to strengthen the Board and management. The Nomination and Governance Committee
annually reviews the composition of the Board, including the age and tenure of individual directors. The Board strives to achieve a balance
between depth of experience and the need for renewal and new perspectives. The Nomination and Governance Committee has determined that
the Board is highly effective and well composed and that no appreciable benefit would be derived from the introduction of term or retirement
age limits at this time.

Formal targets regarding females on the Board
or in executive officer positions have not been deemed necessary in light of the Company's current culture and commitment to diversity.
The Company will continue to review, assess and develop ways to promote females within the Company, ensuring that females continue to
advance and hold leadership roles in NexGen.

In considering the recently adopted CSA Guidelines,
the Nomination and Governance Committee has determined to monitor developments in this area while reviewing the Company’s own practices
in order to adopt a policy that is meaningful for the Company. The Company is committed to nominating the best individuals to fulfil director
roles and executive officer positions.

Equity Ownership Guidelines

The Board believes it is in the best interests
of the Company and Shareholders to align the financial interests of NexGen’s leadership with those of the Shareholders. In 2019,
the Board approved Director Share Ownership Guidelines which sets out mandatory equity ownership requirements for directors of the Company
(“Participants”). The minimum ownership guidelines being a multiple of 3x the annual cash retainer, valued based on
the share price, at the higher of the measurement date or acquisition date, are expected to be satisfied by each Participant within five
(5) years after first becoming subject to these ownership requirements or after being appointed as a director. Once the Participant’s
level of equity ownership satisfies the applicable minimum ownership requirements pursuant to these guidelines, Participants are expected
to maintain such minimum ownership levels for as long as the Participant is subject to the Equity Ownership Guidelines.

SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY
COMPENSATION PLANS

The following table sets out information as of
the end of the Company’s most recently completed financial year, being December 31, 2020, with respect to compensation plans under
which equity securities of the Company are authorized for issuance.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 42
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

Equity Compensation Plan Information

 
 
 
 
 
 Plan Category
 Number of securities issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights
 
 Weighted-average exercise price of
 outstanding options, warrants and rights
 ($)
 
 Number
 of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation
 plans (2)
 
 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1)
 
 
 36,473,162
 
 
 2.47
 
 
 39,892,879
 
 
 Equity compensation
 plans not approved by securityholders
 
 
 Nil
 
 
 n/a
 
 
 n/a
 
 Total
 36,473,162
 
 39,892,879
 
 

Notes:

(1)Refers to stock options to purchase securities of the Company pursuant to the Option Plan.

(2)The maximum number of shares that may be reserved for issuance under the Option
Plan at any time is 20% of the Company’s issued and outstanding shares, less any common shares reserved for issuance under any other
security-based compensation arrangements.

Stock Option Overhang, Dilution and Burn Rates

The following table provides a 3-year history of
the overhang, dilution and burn rates for the Option Plan required under Section 613 of the TSX Company Manual.

 
 
 2020
 2019
 2018
 
 (#)
 (%)
 (#)
 (%)
 (#)
 (%)
 
 Overhang (1)
 39,892,879
 10.45%
 35,432,619 
 9.84%
 34,010,264 
 9.68%
 
 Dilution (2)
 36,473,162
 9.55%
 36,617,495 
 10.16%
 36,237,148 
 10.32%
 
 Burn Rate (3)
 9,555,000
 2.58%
 9,438,679 
 2.66%
 9,045,482 
 2.62%
 
Notes:

(1)The total number of Common Shares reserved for issuance to employees, less the number of Options outstanding,
expressed as a percentage of the total number of Common Shares outstanding as at December 31st of each year.

(2)The total number of Options outstanding expressed as a percentage of the total number of Common Shares
outstanding as at December 31st of each year.

(3)The number of Options granted in a fiscal year, expressed as a percentage of the weighted average number
of Common Shares outstanding for the fiscal year.

INDEBTEDNESS OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

As at the date of this Circular, no executive
officer, director, employee or former executive officer, director or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is indebted to
the Company, or any of its subsidiaries. No person who is or who was at any time during the most recently completed financial year a director
or executive officer of the Company, any proposed nominee for election as a director of the Company, or any associate of any such director,
executive officer, or proposed nominee is or was at any time since the beginning of the most recently completed financial year indebted
to the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has provided a guarantee, support agreement,
letter of credit or other similar arrangement for any indebtedness of any of these individuals to any other entity.

APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR

At the Meeting, shareholders will be asked to
re-appoint KPMG LLP, 777 Dunsmuir Street, PO Box 10426, Vancouver BC, Canada, as independent auditor of the Company for the ensuing year
at such remuneration to be fixed by the Board.

Unless otherwise indicated, the persons designated
as proxyholders in the accompanying form of proxy will vote the common shares represented by such form of proxy FOR the re-appointment
of KPMG LLP as the Company’s independent auditor to hold office for the ensuing year with remuneration to be fixed by the Board.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 43
 2021 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

OTHER MATTERS

The Board is not aware of any other matters which
it anticipates will come before the Meeting as of the date of mailing this Circular.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Additional information relating to the Company
is available under the Company’s profile on the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com and on the
Company’s website at www.nexgenenergy.ca.

Financial information relating to the Company
is provided in the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements (the “Financial Statements”) and the management’s
discussion and analysis (the “MD&A”) for the financial year ended December 31, 2020. Shareholders may download
the Financial Statements and the MD&A from SEDAR (www.sedar.com) or contact the Company directly
to request copies of the Financial Statements and the MD&A by: (i) mail to #3150 - 1021 West Hastings Street, Vancouver, British Columbia
V6E 0C3 or (ii) e-mail to ddang@nxe-energy.ca.

The foregoing contains no untrue statement of
a material fact and does not omit to state a material fact that is required to be stated or that is necessary to make a statement not
misleading in light of the circumstances in which it is made. The contents and the sending of the Circular have been approved by the Board.

 

 
 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF NEXGEN ENERGY LTD.
 
 “Leigh Curyer”
 
 Leigh Curyer
 
 President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 Vancouver, British Columbia April 30, 2021
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR | PAGE 44
 
 

 

 

SCHEDULE A

 

 

BOARD MANDATE

I.GENERAL

The Board of Directors (the "Board")
has the responsibility to supervise the management of the business and affairs of NexGen Energy Ltd. (the "Company")
and all entities controlled by the Company other than those controlled entities that have securities listed on a securities exchange and
are subject to their own corporate governance standards and policies, (collectively, "NexGen") in the best interests
of the holders of Company's shares (the "Shareholders"). A fundamental objective of the Board is to enhance and preserve
long-term value to the Company, to confirm that NexGen meets its obligations on an ongoing basis and to confirm that NexGen operates in
a reliable and safe manner. In performing its functions, the Board will, when required by law, consider the legitimate interests of its
other stakeholders (such as employees, service providers and communities).

The Board has responsibility for managing its
own affairs and the stewardship of NexGen, including constituting committees of the Board and determining director compensation. The Board
will oversee the systems of corporate governance and financial reporting and controls to satisfy itself that the Company reports adequate
and fair financial information to Shareholders and engages in ethical and legal conduct. The Board will appoint the officers of the Company
by resolution.

II.CONSTITUTION

A majority of the Board shall be composed of
directors who are independent in accordance with applicable securities law, stock exchange requirements and other applicable law. The
Board shall propose the list of nominees for individual election as directors of the Company to be put before the annual meeting of Shareholders
of the Company.

III.BOARD CHAIR

The Board will appoint a chair (the "Board
Chair"), who, if possible and if in the best interests of NexGen, will be a person other than an officer or employee of the Company.
The Board Chair reports to the Board and provides leadership to the Board in matters relating to the effective execution of all Board
responsibilities, and works with the Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO") to ensure that the Company fulfills its responsibilities
to stakeholders including Shareholders, employees, partners, governments and the public. The Board has approved and will periodically
review the position description for the Board Chair.

IV.COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD

The Board will carry out its mandate directly
and through the following committees of the Board (and such other committees as it appoints from time to time):

(a)Audit Committee;

(b)Compensation Committee;

(c)Nomination and Governance Committee; and

(d)Sustainability Committee.

Each committee will function according to a written
charter, approved by the Board. The Board will review and assess the adequacy of the committee charters on an annual basis.

 

 BOARD MANDATE | PAGE 45
 
 

 

V.MATTERS REQUIRING BOARD APPROVAL

Certain responsibilities of the Board are sufficiently
important to warrant the attention of the Board and, accordingly, are not delegated or are only delegated in a qualified or partial manner,
including, other than as required by law:

(a)submitting to Shareholders any matter requiring their approval;

(b)filling vacancies among the directors or appointing additional directors;

(c)approving borrowing and hedging;

(d)authorizing NexGen to issue debt or equity securities,
declare dividends, or purchasing the Company's own shares;

(e)approving prospectuses, if any;

(f)approving continuous disclosure
documents which are "core" documents including annual and interim financial statements, the related management's discussion
and analysis and press releases related thereto, the annual information form, and management information circulars;

(g)adopting or amending articles;

(h)establishing a process to adequately provide for management
succession and, from time to time, reviewing succession plans;

(i)maintaining an understanding of the boundaries between
the respective responsibilities of the Board and management and establishing limits on the authority delegated to management;

(j)directing management to implement systems that are
designed to ensure that NexGen operates within applicable laws and regulations, and to the highest ethical and moral standards;

(k)satisfying itself as to the business and professional
integrity of the CEO and other senior executives, as well as the CEO's leadership in the creation of a culture of integrity throughout
the Company; and

(l)with the assistance of reports and/or recommendations of the Compensation Committee:

(i)appointing and confirming the remuneration
of the CEO and appointing and approving the remuneration of other senior executives comprising the senior management team, and providing
them with advice and counsel in the execution of their duties;

(ii)monitoring and evaluating the performance of the CEO and other senior executives;

(iii)approving employment agreements,
severance arrangements and change in control agreements and provisions relating to senior executives; and

(iv)approving adoption of equity compensation
plans, stock option grants and short-term and long- term incentive plan criteria, targets and awards.

VI.STRATEGIC PLANNING

The Board has the responsibility to confirm there
are long-term operational and financial goals and a strategic planning process in place for NexGen and to participate with management
in developing and approving the strategy by which it proposes to achieve these goals. The Board will:

(a)adopt a strategic planning process
and review and approve annually a corporate strategic plan which takes into account, among other things, the opportunities and risks of
the business on a long-term and short-term basis; and

(b)monitor performance against the strategic plan.

 

 BOARD MANDATE | PAGE 46
 
 

 

VII.RISK MANAGEMENT

The Board has the responsibility to understand
the primary risks of the business in which NexGen is engaged and verify that NexGen achieves a proper balance between risks incurred and
the potential return to the Company and its Shareholders. The Board must also confirm that there are systems in place which effectively
monitor and manage those risks with a view to the long-term viability of NexGen. The Board will:

(a)confirm that a management system is in place to identify
the principal risks to NexGen and its business and that appropriate procedures are in place to monitor and mitigate those risks;

(b)confirm that management processes are in place to address
and comply with applicable regulatory, corporate, securities and other compliance matters; and

(c)review insurance coverage annually.

VIII.FINANCIAL REPORTING AND MANAGEMENT

The Board will, with the assistance of reports
and/or recommendations of the Audit Committee:

(a)approve financial statements and review and oversee
compliance with applicable audit, accounting and financial reporting requirements;

(b)approve annual operating and capital budgets;

(c)approve cash management plans and
strategies and all activities relating to cash accounts and cash investment portfolios, including the establishment and maintenance of
bank, investment and brokerage accounts;

(d)confirm that the Audit Committee
has established a system for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or
auditing matters, including the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing
matters; and

(e)approve significant changes in accounting practices or policies.

IX.DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

The Board members should be compensated in a
form and amount that is appropriate and which is customary for comparative organizations, having regard to such matters as time commitment,
responsibility and trends in director compensation. The Board, based upon recommendations of the Compensation Committee, will periodically
review the adequacy and form of directors' compensation, including compensation of the Board Chair and committee chairs, to confirm that
it is competitive with companies that are similarly situated and realistically reflects the responsibilities and risks involved in being
a director. Management directors will not receive additional compensation for Board service.

To more closely align the interests of directors
and the Shareholders, the directors will be eligible to participate in NexGen's stock option plan (the "Option Plan")
under which directors are eligible to receive stock options.

X.TERM LIMITS FOR DIRECTORS

The Board has determined that fixed term limits
for directors should not be established and that Board renewal is the primary focus. The Board is of the view that such a policy would
have the effect of forcing directors off the Board who have developed, over a period of service, increased insight into the Company and
who, therefore, can be expected to provide an increasing contribution to the Board. At the same time, the Board recognizes the value of
some turnover in Board membership to provide ongoing input of fresh ideas and views and annually considers changes to the composition
of the Board.

 

 BOARD MANDATE | PAGE 47
 
 

 

XI.BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION

The Board Chair will facilitate an annual assessment
of the overall performance and effectiveness of the Board. The Chairman will report on such assessments to the Board. The Board, in conjunction
with the Nomination and Governance Committee, will be responsible for establishing the evaluation criteria and implementing the process
for such evaluations. If requested, each director will complete a board effectiveness questionnaire assessing:

(a)the Board's performance in specified categories such
as fiduciary oversight, Board governance and process, strategic planning and business decisions, and financial matters; and

(b)the performance of each committee of the Board in light of such committee's
mandate.

The Board will, after receiving the oral or written
report of the Board Chair, meet to discuss the results. The objective of the assessments is to maintain the continued effectiveness of
the Board as a whole, each committee, and each individual Board member (including the Board Chair), in the execution of their responsibilities
and to contribute to a process of continuing improvement.

XII.SELECTION OF NEW DIRECTOR CANDIDATES

The Board will approve a list of nominees for
independent election at the annual meeting of Shareholders who have been nominated by the Nomination and Governance Committee. Prior to
approving or recommending to the Shareholders that the Shareholders elect a new nominee to the Board, the Board will consider the competencies
and skills necessary for the Board, as a whole, the competencies and skills of each existing director, and the competencies and skills
the new nominee will bring to the Board. The Board will also consider the appropriate size of the Board, with a view to facilitating effective
decision-making, and the importance of having diversity on the Board, while ensuring the necessary skills and competencies required as
a whole, and will take this into account in considering new nominees.

Directors are encouraged to identify potential
candidates to the Nomination and Governance Committee. An invitation to stand as a nominee for election to the Board will be made to a
candidate by the Board through the Board Chair or the Board Chair's delegate.

XIII.DIRECTOR QUALIFICATION STANDARDS

The Company's objective is to select individuals
with education, experience and skills necessary to assist management in the operation of the business. Because the experiences and advice
of those businesses facing similar issues is of particular value, current and former senior officers of other major corporations are desirable
nominees.

The role of selecting an individual to become
a director belongs to the Nomination and Governance Committee, who will consider the education, business, governmental and civic experience,
communication and interpersonal skills, the diversity of the existing board and the background of the potential candidate, as well as
any other matters which are relevant to the Company's objectives. Selections made by the Nomination and Governance Committee are subject
to Board approval.

This review will take
into account the desirability of maintaining a reasonable diversity of personal characteristics such as age, gender, geographic
residence and origin. However, all directors should possess the highest personal and professional ethics, integrity and values and be
committed to representing the long-term interests of the Shareholders. They must also have an inquisitive and objective perspective, practical
wisdom and mature judgment, outstanding ability in their individual fields of expertise and a willingness to devote necessary time to
Board matters.

XIV.ORIENTATION AND ONGOING EDUCATION

The Board shall approve, as required, a director
orientation and ongoing education plan presented by the Nomination and Governance Committee which provides that directors have the requisite
skills, knowledge and understanding to fulfill their duties as directors. A director's manual, which is updated on a regular basis, is
provided to new Board members who are expected to review and become familiar with its contents. The Board is briefed on a regular basis
on corporate governance developments and emerging best practices in corporate governance.

 

 BOARD MANDATE | PAGE 48
 
 

 

 

The Company also provides directors with opportunities
to increase their knowledge and understanding of the Company's business. Briefings on strategic issues are conducted as appropriate, and
typically include reviews of the competitive environment, the Company's performance relative to peers, and any other developments that
could materially affect the Company's business. Such briefings may be supplemented by participation
by third party consultants, such as financial advisors, and outside legal counsel.

XV.BOARD OPERATIONS

A.Number of Board Meetings

The Board shall meet quarterly, or more frequently
as needed for the directors to diligently discharge their responsibilities.

B.Participation on Committees

All members of the Audit Committee, all members
of the Compensation Committee, and all members of the Nomination and Governance Committee must be independent, subject only to the Board
claiming an available exemption under applicable securities laws and stock exchange requirements. The majority of the members of other
committees must be independent directors. The Board will endeavour to limit a director's participation to three (3) committees in order
to enable the director to give proper attention to each committee, as well as to the Board.

C.Conduct of Meetings

Board and committee meetings shall be conducted
in a manner which facilitate open communication, meaningful participation and timely resolution of issues.

D.Agenda for Board and Committee Meetings

The Board Chair and the CEO shall propose an
agenda for each Board meeting. Each Board member is free to suggest the inclusion of items on the agenda. The chair of each committee
of the Board in consultation with committee members and appropriate members of management shall develop agendas for committee meetings.

E.Materials Distributed in Advance of Meetings

Meeting materials will be distributed to members
of the Board before each Board meeting, in sufficient time to ensure adequate opportunity for review. Under some circumstances, due to
the confidential nature of matters to be discussed at the meeting, it may not be prudent or appropriate to distribute materials in advance.

F.Non-Directors at Board Meetings

The Board believes there is value in having certain
members of senior management attend each Board meeting to provide information and opinion to assist the directors in their deliberations.
Attendance by senior management will be determined by the CEO with the concurrence of the Board Chair. Management attendees will be excused
for any agenda items that are reserved for discussion among directors only.

G.In-Camera Sessions

The independent directors will hold in-camera
sessions in conjunction with every regular meeting of the Board, at which non-independent directors and members of management are not
in attendance.

H.Code of Ethics

The Board has adopted a Code of Ethics that governs
the behaviour of directors, officers and employees working for the Company, and has established procedures for monitoring compliance.
The Board must approve any amendments and waivers and ensure disclosure of any amendments and waivers as required by applicable law or
regulation.

 

 BOARD MANDATE | PAGE 49
 
 

 

I.Stakeholder Communication

The Board will:

(a)confirm that management has established
a system for effective corporate communications including disclosure controls and processes for consistent, transparent, regular and timely
public disclosure;

(b)approve the adoption of a Disclosure
Policy, relating to, among other matters, the confidentiality of the Company's business information and the timely reporting of developments
that have a significant and material impact on the value of the Company.

XVI.CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The Board as a whole is responsible for developing
the Company's approach to corporate governance. The Board will:

(a)establish an appropriate system
of corporate governance including practices to permit the Board to function independently of management;

(b)establish committees and approve
their respective charters and the limits of authority delegated to each committee;

(c)establish written Terms of Reference
for directors, that describe and communicate performance expectations of a director and provide a benchmark for developing an approach
to individual director assessment and evaluation;

(d)require directors to obtain approval
prior to serving on the board of directors of other publicly traded companies;

(e)review on an annual basis whether
any two or more directors serve together on the board of another publicly-traded entity and whether the composition of the Board needs
to be changed to eliminate these interlocks;

(f)approve the nomination of directors,
giving consideration to the competencies and skills each new nominee will bring to the boardroom relative to the competencies and skills
of existing directors and of the board as a whole;

(g)review the adequacy and form of
directors' compensation, including compensation to committee chairs, to ensure that it is competitive with companies that are similarly
situated and realistically reflects the responsibilities and risks involved in being a director;

(h)arrange for independent directors
to hold regular in-camera sessions, at which non-independent directors and members of management are not in attendance; and

(i)establish a minimum attendance
expectation for directors in respect of Board and committee meetings, keeping in mind the principle that the Board believes that all directors
should attend all meetings of the Board and each committee on which he or she sits.

XVII.CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS

The Board has adopted a Code of Ethics and will:

(a)establish procedures for monitoring compliance with such code; and

(b)approve any amendments and waivers
of such code and ensure disclosure of any amendments and waivers, as required by applicable law or regulation.

 

 BOARD MANDATE | PAGE 50
 
 

 

XVIII.BOARD MEETINGS

The Board will meet as frequently as needed for
the directors to diligently discharge their responsibilities. Notice of each meeting will be given to each member. The notice will:

(a)be in writing (which may be communicated by fax or email);

(b)be accompanied by an agenda that states the nature
of the business to be transacted at the meeting in reasonable detail;

(c)to the extent practicable, be accompanied by copies
of documentation to be considered at the meeting; and

(d)be given at least forty-eight (48) hours preceding the
time stipulated for the meeting, unless notice is waived by the Board members.

A quorum for a meeting of the Board is a majority
of the members present in person or by telephone or such greater number of directors as the Board may from time to time determine.

The powers of the Board may be exercised at a
meeting at which a quorum is present or by resolution in writing signed by all the directors entitled to vote on that resolution at a
meeting of the Board. At all meetings of the Board, every question shall be decided by a majority
of the votes cast on the question. Resolutions in writing may be signed in counterparts.

If the Board Chair is not present at a meeting
of the Board, the CEO will act as Chair. If the CEO is not present, a Chair will be selected from among the members present.

The Board may
invite others to attend any part of any meeting as it deems appropriate. This includes members of management, any employee, the Company's
legal counsel, external auditors and consultants.

In conjunction with each Board meeting, the independent
directors will hold an in-camera session, at which non- independent directors and members of management are not in attendance.

Minutes will be kept of all meetings of the Board.
The minutes will include copies of all resolutions passed at each meeting, will be maintained with the Company's records, and will be
available for review by members of the Board and the external auditor.

 

 

 

 

 
BOARD MANDATE | PAGE 51