EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED APRIL 13, 2018

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

NexGen Announces Senior Management Departures

VANCOUVER, April 13, 2018 /CNW/ - NexGen Energy Ltd.
("NexGen" or the "Company") (TSX:NXE, NYSE MKT:NXE) advises that Garrett Ainsworth, Vice President - Exploration
and Development and Joanna Cameron, Vice President - Legal and Corporate Secretary have mutually agreed to conclude their employment
relationship with the Company, effective April 15, 2018.

The Company wishes them both the best in their future endeavours.

About NexGen

NexGen is a British Columbia corporation with a focus on the
acquisition, exploration and development of Canadian uranium projects. NexGen has a highly experienced team of uranium industry
professionals with a successful track record in the discovery of uranium deposits and in developing projects through discovery
to production.

NexGen owns a portfolio of prospective uranium exploration
assets in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan, Canada, including a 100% interest in Rook I, location of the Arrow Deposit in February
2014, the Bow discovery in March 2015, the Harpoon discovery in August 2016 and the Arrow South discovery in July 2017. The Arrow
deposit's updated mineral resource estimate with an effective date of December 20, 2016 was released in March 2017, and comprised
179.5 M lbs U3O8 contained in 1.18 M tonnes grading 6.88% U3O8 in the Indicated Mineral Resource category and an additional 122.1
M lbs U3O8 contained in 4.25 M tonnes grading 1.30% U3O8 in the Inferred Mineral Resource category.

Technical Information 

All scientific and technical information in this news release
has been prepared by or reviewed and approved by Mr. Garrett Ainsworth, P.Geo., Vice President – Exploration & Development
for NexGen. Mr. Ainsworth is a qualified person for the purposes of National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects ("NI 43-101"), and has verified the sampling, analytical, and test data underlying the information or opinions
contained herein by reviewing original data certificates and monitoring all of the data collection protocols.

For details of the Rook I Project including the quality assurance
program and quality control measures applied and key assumptions, parameters and methods used to estimate the mineral resource
please refer to the technical report entitled "Technical Report on the Preliminary Economic Assessment of the Arrow Deposit,
Rook 1 Property, Province of Saskatchewan, Canada" dated effective September 1, 2017 (the "Rook 1 Technical Report")
prepared by Jason J. Cox, David M. Robson, Mark B. Mathisen, David A. Ross, Val Coetzee and Mark Wittrup, each of whom is a "qualified
person" under NI 43-101. The Rook I Technical Report is available for review under the Company's profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.

U.S. investors are advised that while the terms "indicated
resources" and "inferred resources" are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission does not recognize these terms. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the material
in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking information" includes,
but is not limited to, statements with respect to the activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates
will or may occur in the future. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can be identified by the
use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget", "scheduled",
"estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negative
connotation thereof or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could",
"would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved" or the negative
connotation thereof.

Forward-looking information and statements are based on
the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry and markets
in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including among others,
that the proposed transaction will be completed, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated, the price of
uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable terms,
that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned exploration
activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions will
not change in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward looking information
or making forward looking statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions
will prove to be accurate

Forward-looking information and statements also involve
known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements of NexGen
to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by such forward-looking
information or statements, including, among others, negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party financing, uncertainty
of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously announced preliminary
results, imprecision of mineral resource estimates, the appeal of alternate sources of energy and sustained low uranium prices,
aboriginal title and consultation issues, exploration risks, reliance upon key management and other personnel, deficiencies in
the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain or maintain
required permits and licenses, changes in laws, regulations and policy, competition for resources and financing, and other factors
discussed or referred to in the Company's Annual Information Form dated March 31, 2017 under "Risk Factors".

Although the Company has attempted to identify important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information or implied
by forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking information
and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated, estimated
or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company undertakes
no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required by applicable
securities laws.

 

 

View original content with multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nexgen-announces-senior-management-departures-300629340.html

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

View original content with multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/April2018/13/c8977.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, lcuryer@nexgenenergy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca; Travis McPherson, Vice President Corporate Development,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, tmcpherson@nexgenenergy.ca, http://www.nexgenenergy.ca; For Media Inquiries: Jonathan Goldberg,
KCSA Strategic Communications, +1 212 896 1282, jgoldberg@kcsa.com

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 06:30e 13-APR-18