EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED NOVEMBER 15, 2018

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

NexGen Honoured to Receive the PDAC's
2019 Environmental and Social Responsibility Award

VANCOUVER, Nov. 15, 2018 /CNW/ - NexGen
Energy Ltd. ("NexGen" or the "Company") (TSX: NXE, NYSE MKT: NXE) is pleased to announce it is the recipient
of the 2019 Environmental & Social Responsibility Award given by the Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada ("PDAC"),
the leading voice of the mineral exploration and development community.

The PDAC Environmental & Social Responsibility
award recognizes an organization's effort in protecting and preserving the natural environment and establishing positive community
relations during the exploration phase or operation of a mine. 

Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer, commented:
"The receipt of this award recognizes NexGen's commitment to all aspects of its operations, communities and the environment
in which it conducts activities. The NexGen team's culture of creating positive impacts for all reflects our core objective which
extends beyond bringing a mine into production. We look forward to expanding the scope and breadth of our programs previously initiated
as we head into 2019 conducting the largest campaign since incorporation in 2011. On behalf of the Executive and Board of NexGen,
I would like to thank everyone involved for their dedication and conduct in the pursuit of what has been achieved to date and their
relentless focus on future initiatives."

The 41st annual PDAC awards showcase
exceptional leaders in the mineral exploration and mining community. Recipients will be celebrated at an Awards Gala &
After Party at the Fairmont Royal York Hotel in Toronto on Tuesday, March 5 during the PDAC 2019 Convention.

About NexGen

NexGen is a British Columbia corporation
with a focus on the acquisition, exploration and development of Canadian uranium projects. NexGen has a highly experienced team
of uranium industry professionals with a successful track record in the discovery of uranium deposits and in developing projects
through discovery to production. NexGen owns a portfolio of prospective uranium exploration assets in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan,
Canada, including a 100% interest in Rook I, location of the Arrow Deposit in February 2014, the Bow discovery in March
2015, the Harpoon discovery in August 2016 and the Arrow South discovery in July 2017. NexGen is the recipient of
the PDAC's 2018 Bill Dennis Award and the 2019 Environmental and Social Responsibility Award.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
and "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking
information" includes, but is not limited to, statements with respect to the activities, events or developments that the Company
expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can
be identified by the use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget",
"scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes"
or the negative connotation thereof or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may",
"could", "would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved"
or the negative connotation thereof.

Forward-looking information and statements
are based on the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry
and markets in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including
among others, that the proposed transaction will be completed, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated,
the price of uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable
terms, that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned
exploration activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions
will not change in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward looking information
or making forward looking statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions
will prove to be accurate.

Forward-looking information and statements
also involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements
of NexGen to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by
such forward-looking information or statements, including, among others, negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party
financing, uncertainty of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously
announced preliminary results, imprecision of mineral resource estimates, the appeal of alternate sources of energy and sustained
low uranium prices, aboriginal title and consultation issues, exploration risks, reliance upon key management and other personnel,
deficiencies in the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain
or maintain required permits and licenses, changes in laws, regulations and policy, competition for resources and financing, and
other factors discussed or referred to in the Company's Annual Information Form dated March 31, 2017 under "Risk Factors".

Although the Company has attempted to identify
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information
or implied by forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking
information and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated,
estimated or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required
by applicable securities laws. 

View
original content to download multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nexgen-honoured-to-receive-the-pdacs-2019-environmental-and-social-responsibility-award-300750829.html

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

View original content to download multimedia:
http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/November2018/15/c3515.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, lcuryer@nexgenenergy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca; Travis McPherson, Vice President Corporate Development,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, tmcpherson@nexgenenergy.ca, http://www.nexgenenergy.ca

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 06:30e 15-NOV-18