EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED NOVEMBER 13, 2017

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

NexGen Appoints Bruce Sprague and Shawn Harriman

VANCOUVER, Nov. 13, 2017 /CNW/ - NexGen Energy Ltd.
("NexGen" or the "Company") (TSX:NXE, NYSEMKT:NXE) is pleased to announce the appointment of Bruce Sprague
as Chief Financial Officer and Shawn Harriman as Senior Manager, Permitting, Environment and Regulatory Affairs of the Company
effective as of November 13, 2017.

Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, commented:
"These two appointments reflect NexGen's rapid progression in size and scale of activities as the Company continues to develop
Arrow and set elite standards in every aspect of our operations. On behalf of the Board and executive I would like to welcome Bruce
and Shawn to the NexGen team. Both bring extensive experience from the top of their respective fields and I look forward to working
with both of them on the delivery of NexGen's objectives."

Bruce Sprague:

Bruce Sprague was most recently Partner, Canadian Mining and
Metals Sector for Ernst & Young and has over 25 years of experience advising multinational and emerging corporations on business
issues in a broad range of countries. Mr. Sprague led key client teams for some the largest Canada-based mining companies
on strategic business initiatives and growth platforms. He is also a frequent lecturer at numerous mining industry forums
on a broad range of topics and an author for several publications on tax and mining issues.

Mr. Sprague is currently a member of the Board of Directors
of the Association for Mineral Exploration of British Columbia (AMEBC), a member of the Industry Advisory Committee for the UBC
Norman B. Keevil Institute of Mining Engineering, a member of the Advisory Council of the Canadian International Resources and
Development Institute (CIRDI) and a former member of the Board of Directors for the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada
(PDAC).

Mr. Sprague is a Chartered Accountant, Certified Public Accountant
(U.S.), Chartered Financial Planner and holds a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from Carleton University.

Shawn Harriman:

Shawn Harriman has over 10 years experience with Cameco Corp.
located in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan where he has developed extensive experience in the areas of environmental management
and regulatory affairs. Most recently, Mr. Harriman was Cameco Corp.'s Superintendent, Safety, Health, Radiation, Environment,
Quality and Regulatory Affairs. His experience includes implementing and managing environmental monitoring and protection programs
and ISO14001 certified environmental management systems at an operational level. As the regulatory point of contact, Mr. Harriman
has worked extensively with Provincial and Federal regulatory authorities and has direct experience in the approvals and licensing
processes, including management of effluent treatment operations and multiple tailings management facilities.

In addition to his experience in uranium operations, Mr. Harriman
previously worked in environmental consulting where he was involved in a number of environmental monitoring and baseline programs
for a variety of mining clients throughout Saskatchewan. He holds a degree in Environmental and Conservation Sciences from the
University of Alberta. Mr. Harriman will continue to live and work in Saskatoon.

NexGen also announces that Grace Marosists, current Chief
Financial Officer, has become Vice President, Finance and Information Technology at NexGen effective immediately. Grace has overseen
the financial reporting function of NexGen from when the Company had a market capitalization of ~$50M to currently ~$1BN and has
graduated from the TSX-V to the TSX and a dual NYSE listing. She now takes on an expanded role and responsibility encompassing
advanced accounting systems implementation and management for NexGen as the Company advances through development.

About NexGen

NexGen is a British Columbia corporation with a focus on the
acquisition, exploration and development of Canadian uranium projects. NexGen has a highly experienced team of uranium industry
professionals with a successful track record in the discovery of uranium deposits and in developing projects through discovery
to production.

NexGen owns a portfolio of prospective uranium exploration
assets in the Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan, Canada, including a 100% interest in Rook I, location of the Arrow Deposit in February
2014, the Bow discovery in March 2015, the Harpoon discovery in August 2016 and the South Arrow discovery in July 2017. The Arrow
deposit's updated mineral resource estimate with an effective date of December 20, 2016 was released in March 2017, and comprised
179.5 M lbs U3O8 contained in 1.18 M tonnes grading 6.88% U3O8 in the Indicated Mineral Resource category and an additional 122.1
M lbs U3O8 contained in 4.25 M tonnes grading 1.30% U3O8 in the Inferred Mineral Resource category.

Technical Information 

For details of the Rook I Project including the quality assurance
program and quality control measures applied and key assumptions, parameters and methods used to estimate the mineral resource
please refer to the technical report entitled "Technical Report on the Preliminary Economic Assessment of the Arrow Deposit,
Rook 1 Property, Province of Saskatchewan, Canada" dated effective September 1, 2017 (the "Rook 1 Technical Report")
prepared by Jason J. Cox, David M. Robson, Mark B. Mathisen, David A. Ross, Val Coetzee and Mark Wittrup, each of whom is a "qualified
person" under NI 43-101. The Rook I Technical Report is available for review under the Company's profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.

U.S. investors are advised that while the terms "indicated
resources" and "inferred resources" are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission does not recognize these terms. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the material
in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves.

Forward-Looking Information

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. "Forward-looking information" includes,
but is not limited to, statements with respect to the activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates
will or may occur in the future. Generally, but not always, forward-looking information and statements can be identified by the
use of words such as "plans", "expects", "is expected", "budget", "scheduled",
"estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates", or "believes" or the negative
connotation thereof or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could",
"would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved" or the negative
connotation thereof.

Forward-looking information and statements are based on
the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen's business and the industry and markets
in which it operates. Forward-looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including among others,
that the proposed transaction will be completed, the results of planned exploration activities are as anticipated, the price of
uranium, the cost of planned exploration activities, that financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable terms,
that third party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental and other approvals required to conduct NexGen's planned exploration
activities will be available on reasonable terms and in a timely manner and that general business and economic conditions will
not change in a material adverse manner. Although the assumptions made by the Company in providing forward looking information
or making forward looking statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there can be no assurance that such assumptions
will prove to be accurate.

Forward-looking information and statements also involve
known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements of NexGen
to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by such forward-looking
information or statements, including, among others, negative operating cash flow and dependence on third party financing, uncertainty
of the availability of additional financing, the risk that pending assay results will not confirm previously announced preliminary
results, imprecision of mineral resource estimates, the appeal of alternate sources of energy and sustained low uranium prices,
aboriginal title and consultation issues, exploration risks, reliance upon key management and other personnel, deficiencies in
the Company's title to its properties, uninsurable risks, failure to manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain or maintain
required permits and licenses, changes in laws, regulations and policy, competition for resources and financing, and other factors
discussed or referred to in the Company's Annual Information Form dated March 31, 2017 under "Risk Factors".

Although the Company has attempted to identify important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information or implied
by forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.

There can be no assurance that forward-looking information
and statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated, estimated
or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements or information. The Company undertakes
no obligation to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required by applicable
securities laws.

SOURCE NexGen Energy Ltd.

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/November2017/13/c6962.html

%CIK: 0001698535

For further information: Leigh Curyer, Chief Executive Officer,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, lcuryer@nexgenenergy.ca, www.nexgenenergy.ca; Travis McPherson, Vice President Corporate Development,
NexGen Energy Ltd., +1 604 428 4112, tmcpherson@nexgenenergy.ca, http://www.nexgenenergy.ca; For Media Inquiries: Jonathan Goldberg,
KCSA Strategic Communications, +1 212 896 1282, jgoldberg@kcsa.com

CO: NexGen Energy Ltd.

CNW 06:30e 13-NOV-17