EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Message
from the Chair of the Board chris mcfadden

 

Dear Valued Shareholders,

You are invited to attend the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders (the “Meeting”) of NexGen Energy Ltd. (“NexGen” or the “Company”),
which will be held on June 17, 2024, at 2:00 p.m. (Pacific Time) at the offices of NexGen located at 1021 West Hastings Street, Suite
3150, Vancouver, British Columbia.

I, as a fellow shareholder, am
pleased to report that NexGen made significant strides in 2023, through advancing NexGen’s carefully considered, disciplined long-term
strategy for the development of the Company’s 100%-owned Rook I Project (the “Rook I Project” or the “Project”)
into a leading global supplier of clean energy fuel for current and future generations. The Board and Executives, together with the entire
team, are very proud of the Company’s record in continually improving and setting new elite standards in every aspect of responsible
resource development in achieving NexGen’s objectives.

NexGen is delivering long-term superior, sustainable
value to shareholders and all stakeholders, while also delivering generational benefits for Saskatchewan, Canada, and the global environment
and restoring Canada as a global leader in the delivery of clean energy fuel.

Listed below are the Company’s significant
2023 achievements which can be found in more detail in this Management Information Circular:

•On November 9, 2023, NexGen received approval
of the Provincial Environmental Assessment for the Rook I Project from the Province of Saskatchewan - the first for a greenfield uranium
mine in over 20 years and the first ever in Canada from a non-governmental organization.

•On June 15, 2023, NexGen signed a historic Benefit
Agreement with the Métis Nation - Saskatchewan Northern Region 2 (MN-S NR2) and the Métis Nation - Saskatchewan (MN-S),
resulting in the Company being among the very rare companies in the resource sector globally to have achieved 100% local Indigenous support
formally prior to Environmental Assessment approval and the start of construction. 

•NexGen released its third annual Sustainability
Report, which for the first time, was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards and sets the
foundation for growth into new frameworks in 2024 and beyond. 

•The Company outperformed the S&P/TSX Global
Mining Index by 41% for the year, and by year-end, closed over $300 million of financings conducted in unique ways both via strategic
investor placements as well as through targeted block trades utilizing the Company’s ATM facility which enabled highly cost efficient
capital raising all of which solidifies the Company’s balance sheet.

This Management Information Circular contains
important information about the Meeting and business to be conducted, including voting details, the nominated directors, the appointment
of auditors, and the executive compensation program at NexGen. Please read and familiarize yourself with the materials presented in this
package in advance of the Meeting. NexGen strongly encourages all Shareholders to participate in the election process and to vote well
in advance of the Meeting. Your vote is important.

In addition, Shareholders will have the opportunity
to access, but not participate, in the formal aspect of the Meeting by webcast or teleconference using the details set forth in the Notice
of Annual General Meeting of Shareholders included in this package.

 

 
 
 

 

NexGen appreciates your continued support
and participation in the Meeting.

Sincerely,

 

Chris McFadden

Chair of the Board of Directors

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Message
from the Chief Executive Officer LEIGH CURYER

 

Dear Fellow Shareholders,

As the world embraces the critical need for safe,
secure, clean energy fuel, NexGen’s elite Rook I Project is at the forefront of this exciting and generational global movement.
Leading governments and companies have set ambitious goals to reach net zero by 2050, with many targeting 2030 to achieve their first
milestones. It is more evident than ever that we will only reach this goal with nuclear power. Nuclear energy is the only carbon-free
power source that provides highly efficient, reliable, low cost, 24/7 baseload power worldwide. NexGen is uniquely positioned to lead
the uranium mining industry as it readies for large and global expansion of demand and the need for sustainable uranium sources from sound
politically stable jurisdictions. Earlier this year, five members of the G7 formed an alliance to reduce reliance on Russian uranium.
Additionally, at COP28 this year, world leaders from 22 (now 28) countries launched a declaration to triple nuclear energy capacity by
2050. It’s clear that the demand for uranium to power nuclear reactors will continue to rise substantially. Given the geopolitical
landscape, the imperative for robust, Western-based production is unequivocal, positioning NexGen to play an indispensable role in this
new energy paradigm. This is something NexGen has preparing for since discovery in February 2014.

NexGen understands the growing supply deficit in
uranium and the structural fragility inherent in the current world mined uranium production landscape and has had the foresight to keep
future production unhedged to fully optimize future cash flows. The Company is laser focused on the advancement of the Rook I Project
which is on track to bring up to 30 million pounds of uranium to market per year by the end of this decade, potentially providing 25%
of world mined supply given current market dynamics and over 50% of Western-world supply where 75% of the demand is located.

Throughout 2023, NexGen successfully and safely
executed its strategy in all aspects of company growth and development. NexGen’s unwavering commitment to its proven company values
and dedication to excellence in everything it does has resulted in a world-class organization leading positive, necessary change in the
sector and setting new standards for safe, responsible resource development highlighted through our industry leading ESG standards. NexGen
is changing the world of nuclear fuel, so the world can successfully transition its energy preference and requirements.

The Company achieved many key strategic objectives
in 2023, including the historic milestone of obtaining 100% local Indigenous support, a significant and rare achievement for companies
in the global resource sector. Equally as precedent setting, NexGen received Provincial Environmental Assessment approval for its 100%
owned Rook I Project, making it the first company in more than 20 years to receive such approval for a greenfield uranium mine and mill
project in Canada. The approach and quality of the submission has set a new standard technically, environmentally, socially, and economically,
and this approval is critical in bringing Rook I into production and propelling NexGen into a top-ten mining Company globally. NexGen
stands to be an industry-leading uranium supplier, diversifying the nuclear fuel cycle and strengthening energy and national security
for those seeking to diversify their fuel supply chain towards a technically and jurisdictionally stable source.

 

 
 
 

 

NexGen’s 2023 site confirmation program made
considerable progress in preparation for the next phase of the Project. Front-end engineering design (“FEED”) was significantly
advanced by the end of the calendar year advancing on the critical path including through transitioning to detailed engineering, procurement
and major contract awards.

In parallel to advancing the Rook I Project, NexGen
embarked on a highly targeted drill program focused on high priority areas of the Company’s highly prospective land package with
the objective of making new material discoveries to support the growing nuclear sector and expanding the understanding of previously under-explored
corridors. On March 11, 2024 the Company announced discovery of intense mineralization in a Greenfields discovery 3.5 kilometres due East
of the Arrow deposit. Further drilling is planned on this priority area.

Over the course of 2023, NexGen bolstered external
relations initiatives through increased global marketing efforts, which included promoting the Company’s Energy Commitments and
focused on reaching significant, long-only funds and long-term investors aligned with NexGen’s vision and strategy. Ongoing, robust
interest from these global investors, financial analysts, and the media have validated that our disciplined, long-term approach for the
asset and the surrounding communities creates the most value for shareholders and stakeholders.

NexGen supports the continued diversification of
its shareholder base. The Company believes that broad ownership of shares has many potential benefits for shareholders, including
the possibility of increased liquidity, more effective price discovery, broader access for the Company to the capital markets and, in
some cases, qualification for inclusion in various market indices. NexGen’s listing onto the ASX in 2021 has facilitated the exposure
to a whole new class of resource savvy Australian fund managers whom have quickly recognized the unique quality of Rook I and the industry
leading approach deployed by NexGen in its development. Consequently, the increase in shareholder ownership by this region’s fund
managers has increased trading liquidity resulting in NexGen being added to the ASX 300 in February 2024.

The work completed this year has advanced the Rook
I Project and elevated the Company’s profile to institutional investors, nuclear fuel buyers, and the media globally. Not only is
bringing the Rook I Project into production good for the local community and Canada, but essential to the world as commercial nuclear
energy is critical to the energy transition and provision of power broadly. This is a testament to the Company’s vision and approach
to the sustainable development of the Rook I Project while also underscoring the need for more uranium suppliers to meet the widening
supply deficit.

We are well positioned as a leader in the clean
energy transition and our team’s expertise and readiness has placed NexGen on a clear and confident path to bringing this generational
asset into production with the best interests of all stakeholders.

 

Sincerely,

 

 

 

Leigh Curyer

President & Chief Executive Officer

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 

 
 WHEN:
 WHERE
 
 Monday, June 17, 2024
2.00 p.m. (Pacific time)
 
 
 The Offices of NexGen Energy Ltd.
 Suite 3150 - 1021 West Hastings Street
 Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C3
 
 Shareholders will also be able to access but not participate in the formal aspect of the Meeting by webcast or teleconference using the details below:
 
 WEBCAST URL:
 https://app.webinar.net/PJNKL2w4BMy
 
 
 CONFERENCE DIAL-IN: 
 To instantly join the conference call by phone, please use the following
 URL to easily register yourself and be connected into the conference call automatically or dial direct.
 
 
 
 
 URL:
 https://emportal.ink/3OFpx0F
 Conference ID: 03740586
 Toronto: 416-764-8659 / Vancouver: 778-383-7413
 North American Toll Free: 1-888-664-6392
 International Toll Free: Australia 1800076068 / Hong Kong 800962712
 

Please plan to vote in advance of the meeting.

The purposes of the meeting
are to:

1.Receive the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended December 31, 2023, together with
the report of the independent auditor thereon;

2.Set the number of directors of the Company at ten;

3.Elect the directors of the Company for the ensuing year;

4.Re-appoint KPMG LLP as independent auditor of the Company for the 2024 financial year and to authorize the directors to fix their
remuneration; and

5.Transact such other business as may properly come before the Meeting or any adjournment
or postponement thereof.

Your Vote is Important

The nature of the business to be transacted at
the Meeting is described in further detail in the accompanying Management Information Circular (the “Circular”), which
is deemed to form part of this notice of meeting. Please read the Circular before you vote on the matters being transacted at the Meeting.

Your vote is important regardless of the number
of NexGen shares you own. Registered NexGen Shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting or any postponement or adjournment thereof
in person are requested to complete, date, sign and return the enclosed form of proxy or, alternatively, to vote by telephone, or over
the internet, in each case in accordance with the enclosed instructions. To be used at the Meeting, the completed proxy form must be deposited
at the office of Computershare Investor Services Inc., no later than 2:00 p.m. (Pacific Time) on June 13, 2024 or, if the Meeting is adjourned
or postponed, not later than 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and statutory holidays in the Province of British Columbia) prior
to the time set for the adjourned or postponed Meeting.

 

 
 
 

 

Non-registered NexGen Shareholders who receive
these materials through their broker or other intermediary should complete and send the form of proxy or voting instruction form in accordance
with the instructions provided by their broker or intermediary.

Your vote is important, and the Company encourages
you to vote promptly.

The deadline to submit your vote is 2:00 p.m.
Pacific Time on June 13, 2024.

DATED at Vancouver, British Columbia,
this 1st day of May 2024.

 

 
 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
 NEXGEN ENERGY LTD.
 
 “Leigh Curyer”
 
 President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
 2023 YEAR IN REVIEW
 11
 
 SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS
 11
 
 Permitting
 11
 
 Benefit Agreements and Community Support
 11
 
 Project Advancement
 11
 
 Exploration
 11
 
 Commercial
 12
 
 2024 and Beyond
 12
 
 COMPENSATION HIGHLIGHTS
 12
 
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS
 15
 
 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR
 16
 
 INFORMATION REGARDING ORGANIZATION AND CONDUCT OF MEETING
 16
 
 Solicitation of Proxies
 16
 
 Notice-and-Access
 16
 
 Appointment of Proxyholders
 16
 
 Voting by Proxyholder
 17
 
 Registered Shareholders
 17
 
 Non-Registered Shareholders
 17
 
 Revocation of Proxies
 18
 
 CDI Holders
 18
 
 Advance Notice Provisions
 19
 
 VOTING SHARES AND PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS
 19
 
 Record Date
 19
 
 Shares Outstanding and Principal Holders
 19
 
 INTEREST OF CERTAIN PERSONS IN MATTERS TO BE ACTED UPON
 19
 
 INTEREST OF INFORMED PERSONS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS
 20
 
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 20
 
 BUSINESS OF THE MEETING
 21
 
 ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
 21
 
 Majority Voting
 26
 
 Cease Trade Orders, Bankruptcies, Penalties or Sanctions
 27
 
 Election of Directors at the 2024 AGM
 28
 
 APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR
 29
 
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 30
 
 GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
 31
 
 DISCLOSURE
 31
 
 About the Board
 31
 
 Director and Executive Shareholdings
 32
 
 Enterprise Risk Management
 32
 
 Cyber Security
 33
 
 Meeting Cadence and In Camera Sessions
 33
 
 Ethical Business Conduct
 33
 
 Director Independence
 34
 
 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
 34
 
 Board Committees
 36
 
 Audit Committee
 36
 
 Compensation Committee
 37
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee
 38
 
 Sustainability Committee
 38
 
 Environmental, Social and Governance
 39
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 Chair of the Board and CEO Position Descriptions and Director Responsibilities
 40
 
 Board Skills Matrix
 40
 
 Terms
 41
 
 Orientation and Continuing Education
 42
 
 Board Performance Assessments
 42
 
 Other Directorships
 43
 
 Attendance
 44
 
 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
 45
 
 COMPENSATION AT A GLANCE
 48
 
 INTRODUCTION
 48
 
 COMPANY OVERVIEW
 49
 
 THE COMPANY’S STRATEGIC FOCUS
 50
 
 The Company’s Stock Price Has Outperformed Its Peers Since Inception
 50
 
 The Company Demonstrates Efficient Use of Capital
 52
 
 COMPENSATION GOVERNANCE
 54
 
 The Role of the Compensation Committee
 54
 
 Composition of the Compensation Committee
 55
 
 Executive Compensation Decision Making Process
 55
 
 Compensation Risk Management
 56
 
 Anti-Hedging
 56
 
 Clawback Policy
 57
 
 Equity Ownership Guidelines
 57
 
 Succession Management
 57
 
 Executive Compensation Philosophy
 58
 
 Executive Compensation Objectives
 58
 
 Executive Compensation Peer Group and Benchmarking
 58
 
 Independent Compensation Consultant
 59
 
 ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 60
 
 Base Salaries
 61
 
 Short-Term Incentive Awards
 61
 
 Long-Term Incentive Awards
 61
 
 2023 NEXGEN PERFOMANCE SCORECARD
 62
 
 Market Performance Overview
 62
 
 2023 Company Objectives and Achievements
 63
 
 CEO Performance
 64
 
 2023 Assessment of Objectives
 64
 
 CEO COMPENSATION SUMMARY
 65
 
 Total Market Capitalization Return vs. Named Executive Pay
 65
 
 2023 Compensation Mix
 66
 
 CEO Stock Option Overview
 66
 
 CEO Share Ownership and Holdings
 68
 
 Summary Compensation Table
 69
 
 Incentive Plan Awards
 70
 
 Termination and Change of Control Benefits
 71
 
 Director Compensation
 72
 
 Incentive Plan Awards
 74
 
 Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans
 76
 
 Stock Option History
 77
 
 INDEBTEDNESS OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 78
 
 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 78
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 SCHEDULE A
 80
 
 
 BOARD MANDATE
 80
 
 
 I.
 GENERAL
 80
 
 
 II.
 BOARD CHAIR
 80
 
 
 III.
 STRATEGIC PLANNING
 80
 
 
 IV.
 RISK MANAGEMENT
 80
 
 
 V.
 FINANCIAL REPORTING AND MANAGEMENT
 81
 
 
 VI.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 81
 
 
 VII.
 CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
 81
 
 

 

 

 
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

2023 YEAR
IN REVIEW 

Uranium
is a valuable and reliable source of clean, dense energy that has the potential to
play a significant role in achieving global decarbonization goals, while also improving energy affordability, lifting millions of people
out of energy poverty, and providing long-term energy security for countries around the world. Leading nations are focused on moving
towards a lower-carbon, lower-emission economy, even as new threats to maintaining a safe, reliable and affordable energy supply have
emerged. The supply deficit for uranium is widening, with strong growing global demand and a lack of primary supply, particularly from
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) nations. Located in one of the top mining jurisdictions
in the world that hosts a superb geological setting, Rook I is a strategic generational asset that has the potential to be large scale,
long-life, low cost and highly cash flow generative, and is uniquely positioned to be at the global epicenter of the clean energy transition.
The Company’s experienced team is applying its strategic disciplined approach to responsible resource development to provide the
world with a stable, safe and secure supply of uranium to be used in civilian nuclear power plants globally. 

SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS

Permitting

•On November 9, 2023, receipt of Provincial Environmental
Assessment (“EA”) approval from the Government of Saskatchewan. This is a major and significant milestone and is the
first such approval for a greenfield uranium mine and mill in over 20 years and the first ever in Canada from a non-governmental organization.

•Submission of responses to all Federal EA technical
review comments, and Federal acceptance of NexGen’s construction phase License application - a key step to bringing Rook I into
production.

Benefit Agreements and Community Support

•On June 15, 2023, signing of the historic Benefit
Agreement with the Métis Nation - Saskatchewan Northern Region 2 (“MN-S NR2”) and the Métis Nation -
Saskatchewan (“MN-S”). NexGen is among the very rare companies in the resource sector globally to have formally achieved
100% local Indigenous support prior to the start of construction. 

•Initiating, funding and facilitating expanded
career development opportunities, including the establishment of new training and certification programs in collaboration with local training
institutions to build technical and professional capacity among the young workforce in the local areas for long-term, meaningful careers.

•Established a community-owned and operated gravel
crushing business that provides economic opportunity beyond the Rook I Project. 

Project Advancement

•Completion of key critical path early works activities
including: the earthworks program, exhaust and production shaft area preparation and clearance, the commencement of the freeze hole geotechnical
drilling work, and the establishment of a 200-person temporary construction camp. 

Exploration

•Completed 22,114 metres of exploration drilling
in 2023, achieving a strong understanding of corridors that had not been previously explored. This new information will further refine
targeting for additional drill programs in 2024.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 11
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Commercial

•Received expressions of interest for over US$1
billion from leading commercial banks and export credit agencies to finance the Rook I Project.

•Executed a $250 million At-The-Market (“ATM”)
program in Q1 2023, which has resulted in NexGen raising over $182 million during 2023 and more subsequently to December 31, 2023 in a
highly efficient and unique manner. This was done successfully utilizing large pre-organized block transactions which saved significantly
in terms of dilution, fees, and market impact. Given the highly successful ATM utilization, NexGen updated its ATM program to $500 million
in December 2023. 

•Closed a strategic US$110 million Convertible
Debenture financing with Queen’s Road Capital Investment Ltd. (“QRC”) and Washington H Soul Pattinson and Company
Limited (“WHSP”) while simultaneously converting the existing US$15 million Convertible Debenture with QRC into common
shares, both long-term supportive shareholders. 

2024 and Beyond 

NexGen made significant progress in executing its strategy
in 2023. The robust, thorough, and detailed planning and successful execution contributed to continued, efficient momentum towards
full-scale production. The team is highly motivated and focused on people, processes, and planning for optimal execution and growth,
always adhering to NexGen’s core values of Honesty, Respect, Resiliency, and Accountability. 

With a clear vision, a well-defined strategy, and a disciplined plan to achieve its objectives, NexGen is poised for another unprecedented
year of growth and achievements as the Company moves closer to becoming a top-10 mining company based on projected annual free cashflow
and the number one company in terms of positive impacts to all stakeholders.

COMPENSATION HIGHLIGHTS

The carefully considered compensation program
developed and overseen by the Company’s independent Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) has
been a key factor in the Company’s progress. The compensation program was specifically designed with the right mix of components
to attract, incentivize and retain the best employees to develop and execute on NexGen’s strategic plan and drive long-term, sustainable
stakeholder value. NexGen’s stock price performance and Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) since becoming a publicly
traded company demonstrates that the shareholder value creation strategy and compensation plan is working and leading the industry.

 

Mercer, the Company’s compensation advisor, is
working closely with the Compensation Committee to further refine the Company’s compensation programs, ensuring they align with
the Company’s ongoing evolution and contribute to its sustained, demonstrated success. The Compensation Committee is working with
Mercer and is expected to adopt an LTI Plan (the “2024 LTI Plan”), discussed below, to provide the Company with flexibility
to grant various types of awards to ensure the Company can attract and retain high performers in the competitive marketplace and to continue
to align the interests of participants with those of the Shareholders.

From the Company’s initial listing on the
TSX Venture Exchange in April 2013 to December 31, 2023, NexGen’s share price increased 2,475%, outperforming the S&P/TSX
Global Mining Index, S&P/TSX Composite Total Return Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 12
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

 

The Board and Compensation Committee
believe that the Company’s long-term success has been significantly influenced by its historical practice of granting only stock
option awards as equity incentives. However, following shareholder engagement by management and the Board, and based on the recommendation
of the Compensation Committee, the Board is expected to adopt a Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2024 LTI Plan”), providing
for the grant of Restricted Share Units (“RSUs”), Performance Share Units (“PSUs”), and Deferred
Share Units (“DSUs”).

The Board and Compensation Committee
remain focused on aligning pay outcomes with the execution of the Company’s overall strategy. The purpose of the 2024 LTI Plan is
to provide the Company with flexibility to grant various types of awards and to align the interests of participants with the interests
of Shareholders, while allowing NexGen to remain competitive in the marketplace. Under the 2024 LTI Plan, equity-based incentives may
be granted to certain of the Company’s directors, executive officers, employees and consultants.

All awards granted under the
2024 LTI Plan will be settled in common shares of the Company bought on the open market, with the objective of promoting equity ownership
among executives and other participants.

RSUs and PSUs, if granted under
the 2024 LTI Plan, will entitle a participant holding such award to receive common shares of the Company, upon settlement, subject to
the terms of the applicable grant agreement.

RSUs are generally expected to
become vested, if at all, following a period of continuous employment. PSUs are similar to RSUs, but their vesting is, in whole or in
part, conditioned on the attainment of specified performance metrics as may be determined by the Compensation Committee. The terms and
conditions of grants of RSUs and PSUs, including the quantity, type of award, grant date, vesting conditions, vesting periods, settlement
date and other terms and conditions with respect to these awards will be set out in the participant’s grant agreement.

It is expected that all RSUs
and PSUs granted under the 2024 LTI Plan will be subject to vesting over a three-year term from the date of grant. The number of PSUs
that will vest will vary depending on the Company’s achievement over the designated performance period of performance criteria determined
by the Compensation Committee and set forth in the applicable grant agreement. The performance criteria applicable to PSUs granted under
the 2024 LTI Plan will be based on performance criteria determined by the Compensation Committee. Subject to the achievement of the applicable
vesting conditions, including any performance criteria, the settlement of an RSU or PSU will generally occur on or as soon as reasonably
practicable following the vesting date.

DSUs, if granted under the 2024
LTI Plan, will evidence the right to receive common shares of the Company. Although DSUs may be available for grant to directors, executive
officers, employees and consultants, NexGen currently expects DSUs, if granted, to be used as a form of non-executive director compensation.

The settlement of a DSU will
generally occur following a pre-established deferral period, which will commence upon or following the participant ceasing to be a director,
executive officer, employee or consultant of NexGen, as applicable, subject to satisfaction of any applicable conditions and the applicable
grant agreement.

With respect to the Company’s current incentive
stock option plan (the “Option Plan”), the Compensation Committee and Board crafted NexGen’s option awards to
have a five-year term and two-year vesting period, enhancing the Company’s ability to retain key high-performance employees, which
is especially important during our current development stage given the unique skillsets required to execute in line with NexGen’s
strategy. Historically, all options granted by the Company immediately following an equity raising have always been issued at a higher
price than the previous price of equity raised, and historically only exercised by Executives in the 60th (final) month prior
to expiry. In many instances the proceeds from these option exercises have been used to fund the tax liabilities, with the majority of
the remaining proceeds invested by the Executives into common shares.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 13
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

NexGen has made significant progress in meeting
the various objectives in its carefully considered strategy to develop the Rook I Project, which has driven the Company’s strong
share price performance since inception. Accordingly, to ensure that such objectives are met, the Company also offers cash-based short-term
incentive (“STI”) and long-term incentive awards which pay out only if specific and appropriate objectives closely
tied to the strategic plan have been met by the Company and the employee. While NexGen’s historical compensation programs are strongly
correlated with the Company’s share price performance, to provide the Company with additional flexibility to grant various types
of awards and to align the interests of participants with the interests of Shareholders, while allowing NexGen to remain competitive in
the marketplace, the Board is expected to adopt the 2024 LTI Plan.

Consideration was given to a vote regarding executive
compensation (“Say on Pay”). The Board and its advisors view Say on Pay at this stage as not appropriate given the
Company is in the development stage and has a committed philosophy of attracting the very best candidates for this generational Rook I
Project. The complex and competing nature of all of the various workstreams (permitting, licensing, Indigenous engagement, exploration,
detailed engineering, procurement, contract negotiations, financing, etc.) to advance the Project at this time requires extensive knowledge
and understanding and the Company’s compensation structure must reflect the continued evolution of the Company. Say on Pay is more
relevant for companies with steady state operations like a producing company given the routine nature of workstreams involved, and it
is the Board’s intention to consider this topic for a shareholder vote once in operation and appropriate comparables can be assessed.
The Company remains committed to using carefully considered incentive programs to create superior, sustainable shareholder value.

The Compensation Committee works with Mercer, a
global, highly recognized independent Compensation advisor. This year, the Compensation Committee worked closely with Mercer in preparation
for Committee meetings and had numerous discussions to develop a comprehensive executive compensation roadmap that aligns with the Company's
evolving needs. This roadmap takes into consideration three key stages in NexGen's transformation: 1) finalizing permitting, which is
reflective of NexGen’s existing compensation framework, 2) construction, where compensation programs will shift appropriately towards
operations and 3) operational, where compensation programs will be tailored to reflect the Company as a fully operational mining entity.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 14
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Full details of NexGen’s compensation programs
are contained in the Section entitled Compensation Discussion and analysis starting on page 45.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS

The Board firmly believes that a strong corporate
governance regime attuned to the nature of a company and aligned with the interests of its shareholders is essential to the successful
creation of shareholder value. NexGen’s corporate governance is fully described in the section entitled “Corporate Governance”
starting on page 30.

Moreover, NexGen’s Board
and management team are dedicated to an active shareholder engagement strategy, which is crucial for ensuring that there is alignment
between the interests of the shareholders, the strategic direction of NexGen, and its overall success. This proactive engagement facilitates
a constructive dialogue, essential for refining the Company’s initiatives and enhancing communication. Over the past year, NexGen
has engaged with shareholders representing a majority of the outstanding common shares, with management and the Board playing an instrumental
role in these discussions. The insights gleaned from these interactions, coupled with advice from proxy and investor advisory firms, are
regularly presented to the Nomination & Governance Committee and Board. An in-depth analysis was conducted by Mercer (along with a
planned review of the 2024 LTI Plan), and adjustments have been made to the composition of the Board including proposing a new female
Board member as a nominee for election as a director, and the resignation of certain external boards by two directors to align on governance
concerns related to perceived over boarding.

The most important component of corporate governance
is a strong Board of Directors composed of members with the qualifications, skills and experience required to ensure that the Board develops
and oversees the right strategy to deliver shareholder value and to maintain accountability. NexGen has a long-term track record of ensuring
the Board holds the right qualifications, skills and experience necessary for the current stage of development and actively works on director
refreshment, including via its annual director evaluations, to ensure the Board maintains the appropriate mix of those qualifications,
skills, and experience. The Board is committed to diversity, including gender diversity. and as part of an ongoing process of reviewing
the composition of the Board, considers including any new or complementary skillsets as well as gender diversity.

The Board has nominated Susannah Pierce for election
as a director of the Company at the Meeting. See “Election of Directors” in this Circular. In the event of the successful
election of Ms. Pierce as a director of the Company, the total number of women on the Board would increase to three (3), representing
33% of the non-executive members of the Board should all nominees be elected as proposed. In addition to Ms. Pierce, the nominated Board
members are described in detail starting on page 21. Further, in the last six years, the Board composition has been strengthened with
the appointment of six new directors (current total 10) representing objective, fresh and continual contestability to governance.

The Board has a robust annual evaluation process
designed to assess the performance of individual Board members, its committees, and the Board as a whole.

In August of 2023, the Board adjusted the composition
of certain committees as detailed on page 43. Periodic rotation of committee members allows for fresh perspectives, while utilizing individual
director’s particular skills and experience and balancing the need for continuity.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 15
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION CIRCULAR

INFORMATION REGARDING ORGANIZATION AND CONDUCT
OF MEETING

This Management Information Circular (the “Circular”)
is furnished in connection with the solicitation of proxies by the management of NexGen Energy Ltd. (the “Company”
or “NexGen”) for use at the annual general meeting (the “Meeting”) of its Shareholders to be held
on Monday, June 17, 2024 at the time and place and for the purposes set forth in the accompanying notice of annual general meeting of
Shareholders (the “Notice of Meeting”). Unless otherwise stated, this Circular contains information as at May 1, 2024.
References in this Circular to the Meeting include any adjournment or postponement thereof and, unless otherwise indicated, in this Circular
all references to “$” are to Canadian dollars.

Solicitation of Proxies

It is expected that proxies will be solicited
primarily by mail, but proxies may also be solicited personally, by telephone, email or by other means of electronic communication, by
directors, officers or employees of the Company, to whom no additional compensation will be paid. All costs of solicitation will be borne
by NexGen. In addition, the Company shall, upon request, reimburse brokerage firms and other custodians for their reasonable expenses
in forwarding proxies and related material to beneficial owners of common shares of the Company.

NexGen has engaged TMX Investor Solutions Inc.
(“TMX)” to assist with communicating with Shareholders in connection with these services, TMX is to receive a fee of
approximately $43,000, plus out-of-pocket expenses. The Company will bear all costs of this solicitation.

If you have any questions or require assistance
with voting, please contact TMX, by telephone at 1- 800-706-3274 toll-free in North America or (201) 806-7301 (outside of North America).

Notice-and-Access

The Company has elected to use the notice and
access mechanism (the “Notice-and-Access Provisions”) under National Instrument 54-101 - Communication with Beneficial
Owners of Securities of a Reporting Issuer (“NI 54-101”) for the delivery of this Circular to Shareholders for
the Meeting.

Under the Notice-and-Access Provisions, instead
of receiving printed copies of this Circular, Shareholders will receive a notice (“Notice”) with information on the
Meeting as well as information on how they may access this Circular electronically and how
they may vote.

The Company will not use the procedures known
as “stratification” in relation to the use of Notice-and-Access Provisions meaning that all Shareholders will receive a Notice
in accordance with the Notice-and-Access Provisions.

Shareholders can request that printed copies
of this Circular be sent to them by postal delivery, at no cost to them, up to one year after the date this Circular was filed on SEDAR+
by calling toll-free (in Canada and the United States) 1-800-841-5821 or by emailing ddang@nxe-energy.ca.
See under the heading “How to Obtain Paper Copies of the Circular” in the accompanying Notice and Access Notification
to Shareholders.

Appointment of Proxyholders

The persons named in the enclosed form of proxy
or voting instruction form are executive officers of the Company. You have the right to appoint someone other than the persons designated
in the enclosed form of proxy, who need not be a Shareholder, to attend and act on your behalf at the Meeting by printing the name of
the person you want in the blank space provided or by completing and delivering another suitable form of proxy.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 16
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Voting by Proxyholder

On any ballot, the nominees named in the accompanying
proxy form will vote, withhold from voting or vote against (as applicable), your common shares in accordance with your instructions. In
respect of any matter for which a choice is not specified, the persons named in the accompanying proxy form will vote at their own discretion,
except where management recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of a matter, in which case the nominees will vote FOR the approval
of such matter.

The form of proxy confers discretionary authority
upon the nominees named therein with respect to amendments or variations to matters identified in the Notice of Meeting and with respect
to other matters which may properly come before the Meeting.

As of the date of this Circular, Management of
NexGen knows of no such amendment, variation or other matter that may come before the Meeting. However, if any amendment, variation or
other matter should properly come before the Meeting, each nominee named in the accompanying proxy form intends to vote thereon in accordance
with the nominee’s best judgment or as stated above.

Registered Shareholders

A “Registered Shareholder”
is a person whose common shares are registered in the Shareholder’s own name. Registered Shareholders who are unable to attend the
Meeting or any postponement or adjournment thereof in person are requested to complete, date, sign and return the enclosed form of proxy
or, alternatively, to vote by telephone, or over the Internet, in each case in accordance with the enclosed instructions.

To vote by telephone, Registered Shareholders
should call Computershare Investor Services Inc. at 1-866-732- VOTE (8683). Registered Shareholders will need to enter the 15-digit control
number provided on the form of proxy to identify themselves as Shareholders on the telephone voting system.

To vote over the Internet, Registered
Shareholders should go to www.investorvote.com. NexGen Shareholders will need to enter the 15-digit
control number provided on the form of proxy to identify themselves as Shareholders on the voting website.

To vote by mail, Registered Shareholders
should complete, date and sign the form of proxy and mail in the enclosed return envelope to the office of Computershare Investor Services
Inc.

Voting instructions must be received no later
than 2:00 p.m. (Pacific Time) on June 13, 2024, or, if the Meeting is adjourned or postponed,
not later than 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and statutory holidays in either the Province of Ontario or the Province of British
Columbia) prior to the time set for the adjourned or postponed meeting.

Late proxies may be accepted or rejected by the
Chair of the Meeting in his or her discretion.

Non-Registered Shareholders

Most Shareholders of the Company are “Non-Registered
Shareholders” because the common shares they own are not registered in their name but are registered in the name of an intermediary
such as a bank, trust company, securities dealer or broker, trustee or administrator, of a self- administered RRSP, RRIF, or RESP or a
clearing agency (such as CDS Clearing and Depositary Services Inc.) of which the intermediary is a participant.

Applicable regulatory policy requires intermediaries/brokers
to whom meeting materials have been sent to seek voting instructions from Non-Registered Shareholders in advance of Shareholders’
meetings. Every intermediary has its own mailing procedures and provides its own return instructions, which should be carefully followed
in order to ensure that the Non-Registered Shareholder’s common shares are voted at the Meeting.

The majority of brokers now delegate responsibility
for obtaining instructions from Non-Registered Shareholders to Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. (“Broadridge”).
Broadridge typically mails a scannable voting instruction form (“VIF”), instead of the form of proxy. Non-Registered
Shareholders are requested to complete and return the VIF to Broadridge. Alternatively, Non-Registered Shareholders can call a toll-free
telephone number or access Broadridge’s dedicated voting website www.proxyvote.com.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 17
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

The VIF must be returned as directed by Broadridge
well in advance of the Meeting in order to have the common shares voted. Non-Registered Shareholders who receive forms of proxies or voting
materials from organizations other than Broadridge should complete and return such forms of proxies or voting materials in accordance
with the instructions on such materials in order to properly vote their common shares at the Meeting.

NexGen may utilize the Broadridge QuickVoteTM
service to assist Non-Registered Shareholders vote their shares. Those Shareholders who have not objected to NexGen knowing who they are
(non-objecting beneficial owners) may be contacted by Innisfree M&A Incorporated to conveniently obtain a vote directly over the phone.

Non-Registered Shareholders are not entitled,
as such, to vote at the Meeting in person or to deliver a form of proxy. If you are a Non-Registered Shareholder and wish to appoint yourself
as proxyholder to vote in person at the Meeting or appoint someone else to attend the Meeting and vote on your behalf, please see the
voting instructions you received or contact your intermediary/broker well in advance of the Meeting to determine how you can do so.

Non-Registered Shareholders should carefully
follow the voting instructions they receive, including those on how and when voting instructions are to be provided, in order to have
their common shares voted at the Meeting.

If you have any questions or require assistance
with voting, please contact TMX, the Company’s proxy solicitation agent, by telephone at 1-800-706-3274 (toll-free in North America)
or 1-201-806-7301 (outside of North America).

Revocation of Proxies

Only a Registered Shareholder who has submitted
a proxy may revoke it at any time prior to the exercise thereof. In addition to revocation
in any other manner permitted by law, a proxy may
be revoked by instrument in writing executed by the Registered Shareholder or such Shareholder’s legal representative, or if the
Registered Shareholder is a corporation, by its duly authorized legal representative, and deposited at the Company’s registered
office: Suite 2500, 700 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, BC V7Y 1B3 at any time up to and including the last business day preceding the
day of the Meeting at which the proxy is to be used, or with the Chair of the Meeting on the day of the Meeting prior to voting and, upon
either of such deposits, the proxy is revoked.

Non-Registered Shareholders who wish to change
their vote must, in sufficient time in advance of the Meeting, arrange for their respective intermediaries to change their vote and if
necessary, revoke the proxy on their behalf.

CDI Holders

Each person who is recorded as the holder of CHESS
Depositary Interests (“CDIs”) on May 1, 2024 in the register of holders of CDIs kept by or on behalf of NexGen (each
such person being a “Relevant CDI Holder”) is entitled to instruct CHESS Depository Nominees Pty Limited (“CDN”),
a wholly owned subsidiary company of ASX Limited that was created to fulfil the functions of a depositary nominee, or its custodian which
holds the NexGen common shares underlying their CDIs how to vote those shares on the resolutions to be considered at the Meeting. If
you are a Relevant CDI Holder and wish to give such voting instructions you must complete and submit the CDI voting instruction form
accompanying this Notice of Meeting or lodge your vote online at www.investorvote.com.au using
your secure access information contained in the CDI voting instruction form. Relevant CDI Holders can expect to receive a CDI voting
instruction form, together with the Meeting materials from Computershare, the CDI registry in Australia.

For your CDI voting instruction form to be valid,
it must be received by Computershare no later than 9:00am on June 12, 2024 (Australian Western Standard Time) in order to allow CDN or
its custodian which holds the underlying common shares sufficient time to provide voting instructions in respect of the relevant common
shares to NexGen by the proxy submission deadline of 2:00pm on June 13, 2024 (Pacific time) or, if the Meeting is adjourned or postponed,
not later than 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and statutory holidays in either the Province of Ontario or the Province of British
Columbia) prior to the time set for the adjourned or postponed meeting, and in addition you must be a Relevant CDI Holder.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 18
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Please note that holders of CDIs are not Registered
Holders of the common shares to which those CDIs relate, and therefore are not entitled to vote in person at a Meeting in their capacity
as a holder of CDIs. Relevant CDI Holders can request CDN to appoint the Relevant CDI Holder (or a person nominated by the Relevant CDI
Holder) as proxy to exercise the votes attaching to the underlying common shares represented by the Relevant CDI Holder. In such case,
a Relevant CDI Holder may, as proxy, attend and vote in person at the Meeting. If you hold your interest in CDIs through a broker, dealer
or other intermediary, you will need to follow the instructions of your intermediary and request a form of legal proxy which will grant
you the right to attend the Meeting and vote in person.

Advance Notice Provisions

On May 21, 2015, Shareholders approved an amendment
to the Company’s articles to implement advance notice provisions for the nomination of directors (the “Advance Notice
Provisions”). Under the Advance Notice Provisions, a director nomination must be made, in the case of an annual meeting of
Shareholders, at least 30 days and no more than 65 days before the date of the meeting, and in the case of a special meeting of Shareholders
(which is not also an annual meeting of Shareholders) called for the purpose of electing directors (whether or not called for other purposes),
not later than the close of business on the fifteenth (15th) day following the day on which the first public announcement of the date
of the special meeting of Shareholders was made. The Advance Notice Provisions also set forth the information that a Shareholder must
include in the notice to the Company. See the Company’s amended articles which are available under the Company’s profile
on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca for full details (filed on May 26, 2015). No director nominations
have been made by Shareholders in connection with the Meeting under the terms of the Advance Notice Provisions, and as such the only
nominations for directors at the Meeting are the nominees set forth below under “Business to be Transacted at the Meeting -
Election of Directors”.

VOTING SHARES AND PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS

Record Date

The Board of Directors of NexGen (the “Board”)
has fixed May 1, 2024, as the record date, being the date for the determination of the holders of the Company’s common shares entitled
to notice of, and to vote at, the Meeting and any adjournment or postponement thereof.

Shares Outstanding and Principal Holders

As of May 1, 2024, there were a total of 539,846,319
NexGen common shares issued and outstanding. The holders of the common shares are entitled to receive notice of, and to attend, all meetings
of NexGen Shareholders and to have one vote for each common share held.

 

To the knowledge of the directors and executive
officers of the Company, as of the date of this Circular, no person or company beneficially owns, or controls or directs, directly or
indirectly, voting securities carrying 10% or more of the voting rights attached to any class of voting securities of NexGen.

INTEREST OF CERTAIN PERSONS IN MATTERS TO
BE ACTED UPON

The Company is unaware of any material interest,
direct or indirect, by way of beneficial ownership of securities or otherwise, of any person who has been a director or executive officer
of the Company at any time since the beginning of the Company’s last financial year, or is a proposed nominee for election as a
director (or an associate or affiliate of such director, executive officer or director nominee) in any matter to be acted upon at the
Meeting, other than the election of directors.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 19
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

INTEREST OF INFORMED PERSONS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS

The Company is unaware of any material interest,
direct or indirect, of any informed person or any proposed nominee for election as a director of the Company (or an associate or affiliate
of such informed person or director nominee) in any transaction since the beginning of the Company’s last financial year or any
proposed transaction, which has materially affected or would materially affect the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The audited consolidated financial statements
of the Company for the financial year ended December 31, 2023, and the report of the independent auditors thereon will be presented at
the Meeting. These consolidated financial statements and the related management’s discussion and analysis were sent to all Shareholders
who have requested a copy. The Company’s consolidated financial statements and related management’s discussion and analysis
for the financial year ended December 31, 2023, are also available under the Company’s profile on SEDAR+ (www.sedarplus.ca)
and on the Company’s website (www.nexgenenergy.ca).

 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 20
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

BUSINESS OF
THE MEETING

ELECTION OF DIRECTORS

The directors of the Company are elected annually
and hold office until the next annual general meeting of the Shareholders or until their successors are elected or appointed. Management
proposes to nominate the persons listed below for election as directors of the Company to serve until their successors are elected or
appointed.

Unless otherwise indicated, the persons designated
as proxyholders in the accompanying form of proxy will vote the common shares represented by such form of proxy FOR setting the number
of directors at ten and the election of the ten director nominees listed in this Circular. Management does not contemplate that any of
the nominees will be unable to serve as a director.

The following table provides information on the
ten director nominees, including: (i) their province or state and country of residence; (ii)
the date when they were appointed a director; (iii) whether they are considered to be independent; (iv) their membership on committees
of the Board; (v) their principal occupation, business or employment presently and over the preceding five (5) years; and (vi) the number
of common shares and stock options of the Company beneficially owned, controlled, or directed, directly or indirectly.

 

 
 Leigh Curyer (1)
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2013 
 Not Independent
 Age: 52
 
 
 Mr. Curyer has more
 than 20 years’ experience in the resources and corporate sector. Mr. Curyer founded NexGen in 2011 and currently serves as
 the President and Chief Executive Officer. From 2008 to 2011, Mr. Curyer was Head of Corporate Development for Accord Nuclear Resources
 Management, assessing uranium projects worldwide for First Reserve Corporation, a global energy-focused private equity and infrastructure
 investment firm. Mr. Curyer was the Chief Financial Officer and head of corporate development of Southern Cross Resources Inc. (now Uranium
 One Inc.) from 2002 to 2006.
 
 Mr. Curyer’s uranium project
 assessment experience has been focused on assets located in Canada, Australia, USA, Africa, Central Asia and Europe, including operating
 mines, advanced development projects and exploration prospects.
 
 Mr. Curyer also serves as the Vice
 Chairman of IsoEnergy Ltd. The Company is a significant shareholder of IsoEnergy Ltd.
 
 Mr. Curyer has a Bachelor of Arts
 in Accountancy from the University of South Australia and is a member of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand. Mr. Curyer is
 a resident of British Columbia, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Sustainability Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 President and Chief Executive Officer of NexGen Energy Ltd.
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 15,100,000
 Common Shares 
 5,200,000
 
 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 21
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 
 Christopher McFadden
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2013 
Independent
 Age: 55
 
 Mr. McFadden is a lawyer with more
 than 25 years of experience in exploration and mining. Mr. McFadden was the Managing Director of Resolution Minerals Ltd. from
 May 2023 to November 2023. He was President and Chief Executive Officer of NxGold Ltd. from February 2017 to March 2020, and, before that
 the Manager, Business Development at Newcrest Mining Limited. Prior to these roles, he was Head of Commercial,
 Strategy and Corporate Development for Tigers Realm Coal Limited, which is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange. Additionally, Mr.
 McFadden was General Manager, Business Development of Tigers Realm Minerals Pty Ltd. Prior to commencing with the Tigers Realm Group in
 2010, Mr. McFadden was a Commercial General Manager with Rio Tinto’s exploration division with responsibility for gaining entry
 into new projects through negotiation with government or joint venture partners, or through acquisition.
 
 Mr. McFadden has extensive international
 experience in managing large and complex transactions and has a broad knowledge of all aspects of project evaluation and negotiation in
 challenging and varied environments. Mr. McFadden currently serves on the Board of IsoEnergy Ltd. The Company is a significant shareholder
 of IsoEnergy Ltd.
 
 Mr. McFadden holds a combined law/commerce
 degree from Melbourne University and an MBA from Monash University. Mr. McFadden is a resident of Victoria, Australia.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Chair of the Board; 
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 2,450,000
 Common Shares
 1,000,000
 
 

 
 Richard Patricio (2)
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2013 
Independent
 Age: 50
 
 Mr. Patricio is the President and
 Chief Executive Officer of Mega Uranium Ltd., having previously been its Executive Vice President from 2005 to 2015. Mega Uranium Ltd.
 holds 19,476,265 common shares of NexGen.
 Until April 2016,
 Mr. Patricio was also the Chief Executive Officer of Pinetree Capital Ltd. (“Pinetree”), a TSX-listed investment company
 specializing in early-stage resource investments. Mr. Patricio joined Pinetree in November 2005 as Vice President, Corporate and Legal
 Affairs. Prior to that, Mr. Patricio practiced law at top-tier Toronto- based law firm before moving in-house with a TSX- listed issuer.
 Mr. Patricio has built a number
 of mining companies with global operations and holds (and has held) senior officer and director positions in several companies listed
 on stock exchanges in Toronto, Australia, London and New York. He currently serves on the Board of IsoEnergy Ltd. as Chairman, Toro Energy
 Limited, and the Company, all in his capacity as CEO of Mega Uranium Ltd.
 Mr. Patricio received his law degree
 from Osgoode Hall and was called to the Ontario bar in 2000. Mr. Patricio is a resident of Ontario, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee (Chair); Compensation Committee (Chair); Audit Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 President and Chief Executive Officer of Mega Uranium Ltd.
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 2,600,000
 Common Shares 
 1,339,900
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 22
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 
 Trevor Thiele
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2013 
Independent
 Age: 66
 
 Mr. Thiele has more than 30 years’
 experience in senior finance roles in medium to large Australian listed companies. Mr. Thiele has also been Chief Financial Officer for
 companies involved in the agribusiness sector (Elders and ABB Grain Ltd., Rural Services Division) and the biotechnology sector (Bionomics
 Limited). In these roles he combined his technical, accounting, and financial skills with commercial expertise thereby substantially contributing
 to the growth of each of these businesses. During this time, Mr. Thiele was actively involved in initial public offerings, capital raisings,
 corporate restructures, mergers and acquisitions, refinancing and joint ventures.
 
 Mr. Thiele holds a Bachelor of Arts
 in Accountancy from the University of South Australia and is a member of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand. Mr. Thiele is
 a resident of South Australia, Australia.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Audit Committee (Chair)
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 2,600,000
 Common Shares 
 Nil
 
 

 
 Warren Gilman
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2017 
Independent
 Age: 64
 
 Mr. Gilman was appointed Chairman
 and CEO of Queen’s Road Capital Investment Ltd. in 2019. Prior to that he was Chairman and CEO of CEF Holdings Limited and was Vice
 Chairman of CIBC World Markets. Mr. Gilman was also Managing Director and Head of Asia Pacific Region for CIBC for 10 years where he was
 responsible for all of CIBC’s activities across Asia. Mr. Gilman is a mining engineer who co-founded CIBC’s Global Mining
 Group in 1988. During his 26 years with CIBC, he ran the mining team in Canada, Australia and Asia and worked in the Toronto, Sydney,
 Perth, Shanghai and Hong Kong offices of CIBC. He has acted as advisor to the largest mining companies in the world including BHP, Rio
 Tinto, Anglo American, Noranda, Falconbridge, Sumitomo Corp., China Minmetals, Jinchuan and Zijin and has been responsible for some of
 the largest equity capital markets financings in Canadian mining history.
 Mr. Gilman serves on the Board of
 Gold Royalty Corp in his capacity as Chairman and CEO of Queens Road Capital Investment Ltd.
 He is Chairman of the International
 Advisory Board of Western University and a member of the Dean’s Advisory Board of Laurentian University.
 Mr. Gilman obtained his B.Sc. in Mining
 Engineering at Queen’s University and his MBA from the Ivey Business School at Western University. Mr. Gilman is a resident of Hong
 Kong, China.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Chairman and CEO of Queen’s Road Capital Investment Ltd.
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 2,550,000
 Common Shares 
 750,000
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 23
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 
 Sybil Veenman
 
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2018 
Independent
 Age: 60
 
 Ms. Veenman has more than 25 years
 of mining industry experience, including as a senior executive and as a public company director. Previously, Ms. Veenman was a Senior
 Vice-President and General Counsel and a member of the executive leadership team at Barrick Gold Corporation. In that capacity, Ms. Veenman
 was responsible for overall management of legal affairs, extensively engaged in that company’s significant M&A and financing
 transactions and involved in a wide range of operational, regulatory, political, and social responsibility aspects of the mining business.
 
 Ms. Veenman currently serves as a Director
 at Nasdaq-listed Royal Gold Inc., and TSX-listed Major Drilling Group International Inc.
 
 Ms. Veenman holds a Law degree from
 the University of Toronto and has completed the Institute of Corporate Directors, Directors Education Program and obtained the ICD.D designation
 from the Institute. Ms. Veenman is a resident of Ontario, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Audit Committee; Sustainability Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 2,550,000
 Common Shares 
 300,000
 
 

 
 Karri Howlett
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2018 
Independent
 Age: 48
 
 Ms. Howlett has more than 20 years
 of experience in corporate strategy, mergers and acquisitions, financial due diligence, and risk analysis. She is the Principal of Karri
 Howlett Consulting which provides clients with an informed third-party perspective and a tailored process to help navigate embedding ESG,
 financial, and risk management strategies.
 
 Ms. Howlett has conducted financial
 due diligence and risk analysis for several business endeavors, including business advisement and financial modelling for several mining
 and energy projects, as well as mergers of financial institutions. Ms. Howlett was recently President of RESPEC Consulting Inc., which
 is a geoscience and engineering consulting company based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
 
 Her extensive experience in ESG matters
 makes her extremely well qualified to serve as Chair of NexGen’s Sustainability Committee.
 
 Ms. Howlett currently sits on the
 Boards of Gold Royalty Corp., and March Consulting Associates Inc., and is on the Board of Governors for the University of Regina. She
 recently served on SaskPower (as Chair of the Safety, Environment and Social Responsibility Committee) from February 2013 to May 2021,
 leading the development and implementation of net zero carbon emission strategies.
 
 Ms. Howlett holds a Bachelor of Commerce
 (with honors) in Finance from the University of Saskatchewan and has earned the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation and the
 Chartered Director designation. Ms. Howlett is a resident of Saskatchewan, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Sustainability Committee (Chair); Nomination and Governance Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 President, Karri Howlett Consulting Inc.
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 2,550,000
 Common Shares 
 262,900
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 24
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 
 Brad Wall (3)
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2019 
 Not Independent
 Age: 58
 
 Mr. Wall was the 14th
 Premier of Saskatchewan. Mr. Wall brings to NexGen’s Board political experience spanning over an 18-year period. During his 10-year
 tenure as Premier of Saskatchewan, Mr. Wall led the province to unprecedented economic expansion, strong population and export growth,
 record infrastructure investment and the first ever and continuing AAA credit for the province’s finances. Mr. Wall worked successfully
 with the previous federal government to achieve nuclear cooperation agreements between Canada and both India and China opening those civilian
 nuclear energy markets to Canadian uranium. He is an advocate for sustainable, inclusive economic development and provides strategic insight
 to the energy sector. Mr. Wall brings to NexGen extensive national energy policy, political and economic experience and has demonstrated
 a very strong commitment, results and advocacy in the best interests of Saskatchewan and Canada over his entire career. That experience
 has proven to be very beneficial to the Board in dealing effectively with the various regulatory and political bodies needed to ensure
 success of the Rook I Project.
 .
 Mr. Wall currently serves on the Boards
 of Maxim Power Corp., Whitecap Resources Inc., and Helium Evolution, and is a partner in a yearling cattle ranch operation.
 
 Mr. Wall attended the University
 of Saskatchewan, graduating with an honours degree in Public Administration and an advanced certificate in Political Studies. Mr. Wall
 is a resident of Saskatchewan, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Sustainability Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director and Consultant
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 2,250,000
 Common Shares 
 45,000
 
 

 
 Ivan Mullany
 
 
 
 
 Director since 2023
 Independent
 Age: 61
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mr. Mullany is a senior mining
 executive with over 35 years of extensive leadership experience spanning project development, operational excellence, innovation, business
 strategy, and governance. Most recently, with Newmont and its predecessor Goldcorp Inc. on the Senior Leadership Team, he led numerous
 major projects collectively in excess of $18 Billion, during the engineering study, construction and execution stages.
 Mr. Mullany’s tenured career
 in the mining sector has led to exceptional international experience, leading diverse teams in multiple jurisdictions.
 Mr. Mullany’s experience
 in the successful execution of global mining project construction and operational excellence is a significant asset to the Board as the
 Rook I Project advances into Detailed Engineering.
 Mr. Mullany is a Fellow of the
 Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (FAusIMM) and a member of the Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (CIMM) and is
 a resident of Ontario, Canada.
 
 Board Committees
 
 Compensation Committee; Sustainability Committee
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 Corporate Director
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 500,000
 Common Shares 
 Nil
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 25
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 
 Susannah Pierce
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Director nominee 2024
 Age: 51
 
 Ms. Pierce has more than 20 years of experience in bringing business, governments, communities, indigenous groups, and other non-governmental actors together to support the development of major capital projects to maximize investment returns.

In her current role of President and Country Chair, Shell Canada Limited, she is responsible for driving integration and coordination of business activity and corporate policy across Shell’s businesses in Canada. She previously served as Director of Corporate Affairs at LNG Canada, a joint venture of Shell, Petronas, Mitsubishi, PetroChina and Kogas, where she was responsible for the project’s federal and provincial regulatory approvals, Indigenous relations and negotiations, government relations, media relations, community consultation and communications.

Ms. Pierce currently serves as the Co-Chair of Business Council of Canada Working Group on Climate Change and Energy Transition, an Executive on the Greater Vancouver Board of Trade, and Catalyst Canada. She is the past chair of the Business Council of BC, Co-Chair of the Business Council of Alberta’s Define the Decade, and Co-Chair of the Canada Chamber of Commerce Western Executive Council. She previously served on the Board of Gemini Corp., and holds an ICD certification.

Ms. Pierce is a graduate of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) and The George Washington University, and speaks English, Spanish and French.

 
 
 Board Committees
 
 Not Applicable
 
 Principal Occupation
 
 President and Country Chair, Shell Canada
 
 Options and Common Shares
 
 Options 
 Nil
 Common Shares 
 350,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Notes:

(1)Mr. Curyer is not independent on the basis that he is an executive officer of the Company.

(2)In addition, Mega Uranium Ltd. holds 19,476,265 common shares of NexGen. Mr. Patricio is the President
and Chief Executive Officer of Mega Uranium Ltd. The common shares of Mega Uranium Ltd. are listed on the TSX.

(3)Mr. Wall is not independent on the basis that he is an executive officer of the consulting company, Flying
W Consulting, that is engaged by the Company.

For the purposes of this Circular, unless otherwise
stated, “independence” has been assessed in accordance with National Instrument 58-101 - Disclosure of Corporate Governance
Practices (the “Disclosure Instrument”).

Majority Voting

The Company has adopted a majority voting policy,
which is available on NexGen’s website at www.nexgenenergy.ca. The policy requires that
each director nominee of the Company must be elected by at least a majority (50% + 1 vote) of the votes cast with regard to his or her
election. Any director nominee (the “nominee”) who receives a greater number of votes “withheld” from his or
her election than votes “for” such election must tender his or her resignation to the Board, to be effective upon acceptance
by the Board. The Nomination and Governance Committee will consider the tendered director’s resignation and recommend to the Board
the action to be taken with respect to such tendered resignation. Factors considered by the Committee may include: (i) the reasons, if
known, why shareholders “withheld” or were requested or recommended to “withhold” votes from the nominee, and
whether the reasons related to matters other than the qualifications or individual actions of the nominee; (ii) any alternatives for
curing what the Committee or the Board, as applicable, believes to be the underlying cause of the “withheld votes”; (iii)
the overall composition of the Board and its committees, including the relative mix of skills and experience of the directors; (iv) the
share ownership of the nominee or any corporation or other entity on which the nominee serves as a director or executive officer; (v)
the expected impact of accepting such resignation on any covenants in agreements or plans; (vi) any applicable law, rule or regulation,
or securities exchange listing or governance requirement; and (vii) whether or not accepting the resignation is in the best interest
of the Corporation. The Board, after receiving the Nomination and Governance Committee’s recommendation, will determine whether
or not to accept the tendered resignation within 90 days of the Shareholder meeting. The Board will accept the tendered resignation absent
exceptional circumstances and the resignation will be effective when accepted by the Board. The Company shall promptly issue a news release
with the Board’s decision which, in the event the resignation is not accepted, must fully state the reason for that decision. The
nominee in question may not participate in any committee or Board votes concerning his or her resignation. This policy will not apply
in circumstances involving contested director elections.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 26
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Cease Trade Orders, Bankruptcies, Penalties or
Sanctions

To the knowledge of management, no proposed director:

(a)is, as of the date of this Circular, or has been, within ten years before the date of this Circular, a
director, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of any company (including the Company) that,

(i)while that person was acting in that capacity, was subject to a cease trade order, an order similar to
a cease trade order or an order that denied the relevant issuer access to any exemption under securities legislation, that was in effect
for a period of more than 30 consecutive days (an “Order”); or

(ii)was subject to an Order that was issued after the proposed director ceased to be a director, Chief Executive
Officer or Chief Financial Officer and which resulted from an event that occurred while that person was acting in the capacity of director,
Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer; or

(b)is, at the date of this Circular, or has been within ten years before the date of this Circular, a director
or an executive officer of any company (including the Company) that, while that person was acting in that capacity, or within a year of
that person ceasing to act in that capacity, became bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation relating to bankruptcy or insolvency
or was subject to or instituted any proceedings, arrangement or compromise with creditors or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee
appointed to hold its assets; or

(c)has within ten years before the date of this Circular, become bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation
relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, or become subject to or instituted any proceedings, arrangement or compromise with creditors, or
had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee appointed to hold the assets of the proposed director.

In addition, to the knowledge of management,
no proposed director has been subject to any penalties or sanctions imposed by a court relating to securities legislation or by a securities
regulatory authority or has entered into a settlement agreement with a securities regulatory authority or been subject to any other penalties
or sanctions imposed by a court, or regulatory body that would likely be considered important to a reasonable securityholder in deciding
whether to vote for a proposed director.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 27
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Election of Directors at the 2024 AGM

In nominating Messrs. Patricio and Gilman, the
Board considered that both Messrs. resigned from several external board of director positions and as such both are no longer serving on
more than two public boards, while serving as CEOs of respective public companies, Mega Uranium and Queens Road Capital. See “Corporate
Governance - Disclosure - Other Directorships”.

Since their respective appointments as CEO in
2015 and 2019, Messrs. Patricio and Gilman have continued their service as highly engaged directors of NexGen, including Mr. Patricio
in his role as Chair of both the Compensation Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee, and Mr. Gilman as a new member of
the Nomination and Governance Committee. The Compensation Committee met formally two (2) times and held numerous informal meetings
as well as consultations with Mercer, the Committee’s independent compensation advisor, regarding Mercer’s review of
NexGen’s current and future compensation program over the course of 2023. In the last fiscal year, both directors attended 100%
of all Board and key committee meetings held, are always well prepared, and contribute significantly to discussions and deliberations.
They also consistently make themselves available for calls and other communications with senior management and other Board members outside
of formal Board and committee meetings. 

Mr. Patricio’s deep knowledge in the exploration
and development of uranium properties, significant public company board experience, and his experience as CEO of two other listed companies
over the course of his career are all highly valued by NexGen and its Board of Directors. Similarly, Mr. Gilman’s pedigree as a
mining engineer, his experience as the Head of Asia Pacific Region for CIBC for 10 years, expertise in advising the world’s largest
mining companies and his central role in some of the largest equity financings in Canadian mining history are crucial to overseeing NexGen’s
successful execution of its strategic plan. 

After the robust annual evaluation of the Board’s
operations, processes and the performance of each Board member (including considering the voting results at the 2023 AGM), the Board (with
Mr. Patricio and Mr. Gilman abstaining) determined that Messrs. Patricio's and Gilman’s active participation and high levels of
engagement, coupled with their diverse experience and depth of knowledge in the mining industry directly related to the development operations
of the Company, render both Messrs. Patricio and Gilman key members of the Board.

After careful review and consultation, and in
order to align with best governance practices, Mr. Patricio and Mr. Gilman have both decided to resign as directors from several external
boards. This decision allows them to concentrate efforts on advancing the strategic initiatives of the Company. In determining to
nominate Messrs. Patricio and Gilman as nominees for election as directors at the 2024 AGM meeting, the Board (with Mr. Patricio and Mr.
Gilman abstaining) concluded that the contributions of Mr. Patricio and Mr. Gilman have been exemplary and have not been impaired by their
other commitments.

In nominating
Mr. Thiele, the Nomination and Governance Committee and Board similarly determined that Mr. Thiele was an invaluable member of the Board. Mr.
Thiele provides important continuity and an intimate understanding of the Company’s evolution as a result of his experience on the
NexGen Board since its inception, and his expertise in senior finance roles at different-sized public companies provide the NexGen Board
and management with important perspectives on capital raising, invaluable insights for growing organizations and a proven track record
of success. 

Mr. Roberts
is not standing for re-election, as he was the nominee of CEF Holdings Limited (“CEF”) pursuant to the terms of an
investor rights agreement entering into among CEF, certain other parties, and the Company, which provided CEF with the right to nominate
one director for election to the Board under certain conditions. With that agreement no longer in effect, Mr. Roberts is not standing
for re-election.

The Board has
nominated Ms. Pierce for election to the Board at the Meeting. Ms. Pierce brings to the Board skills and experience in the energy sector
and international government relations commensurate with the stage of development of NexGen. In the event of Ms. Pierce being successfully
elected as a director of the Company at the Meeting, there will be a total of three women on the Board, representing 33% of the non-executive
members of the Board. This underscores NexGen's commitment to evolving and responsive governance, with changes in Board composition reflecting
strategic optimization.

The Board continuously
monitors and reviews the effectiveness and commitments of all directors and will recommend appropriate action should any director’s
effectiveness decline for any reason.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 28
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR

At the Meeting, Shareholders will be asked to
re-appoint KPMG LLP, 777 Dunsmuir Street, PO Box 10426, Vancouver, BC, Canada, as independent auditor of the Company for the ensuing year
at such remuneration to be fixed by the Board.

Unless otherwise indicated, the persons designated
as proxyholders in the accompanying form of proxy will vote the common shares represented by such form of proxy FOR the re-appointment
of KPMG LLP as the Company’s independent auditor to hold office for the ensuing year with remuneration to be fixed by the Board.

The aggregate fees billed by the Company’s
external auditors, KPMG LLP, in each of the last two (2) financial years are as follows:

 

 
 
 Financial
 Year Ending
 
 
 Audit
 Fees (1,2)
 
 
 Audit-
 Related Fees (3)
 
 
 Tax
 Fees (4)
 
 
 All Other
 Fees (5)
 
 2022
 
 $491,752
 
 Nil
 
 Nil
 
 Nil
 
 2023
 
 $412,422
 
 Nil
 
 Nil
 
 Nil
 
 

Notes:

(1)The aggregate audit fees in respect of the financial year, of which $103,090 relate to IsoEnergy in 2022
(2023 - nil). IsoEnergy is a former subsidiary of the Company, and the Company remains a significant shareholder of IsoEnergy Ltd.

(2)$106,456 of this amount in 2023 related to audit services performed in connection with securities filings
(2022 - $121,965).

(3)The aggregate fees for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of
the audit or review of the Company’s financial statements which are not included under the heading “Audit Fees”.

(4)The aggregate fees for professional services rendered for tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning.

(5)The aggregate fees for products and services other than as set forth under the headings “Audit Fees”,
“Audit Related Fees” and “Tax Fees”.

 

 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 29
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

 
 GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
 31
 
 DISCLOSURE
 31
 
 About the Board
 31
 
 Director and Executive Shareholdings
 32
 
 Enterprise Risk Management
 32
 
 Cyber Security
 33
 
 Meeting Cadence and In Camera Sessions
 33
 
 Ethical Business Conduct
 33
 
 Director Independence
 34
 
 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
 34
 
 Board Committees
 36
 
 Audit Committee
 36
 
 Compensation Committee
 37
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee
 38
 
 Sustainability Committee
 38
 
 Environmental, Social and Governance
 39
 
 Chair of the Board and CEO Position Descriptions and Director Responsibilities
 40
 
 Board Skills Matrix
 40
 
 Terms
 41
 
 Orientation and Continuing Education
 42
 
 Board Performance Assessments
 42
 
 Other Directorships
 43
 
 Attendance
 44
 
 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 30
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW

NexGen and the Board recognize the importance of strong
corporate governance including the fundamental role played by directors to instill values, guide culture and drive performance to deliver
alignment with Shareholder interests.

 

 
 Best Practice Highlights
 
 ü
 All directors are elected annually
 
 ü
 Independent Chair
 
 ü
 100% independent Audit, Compensation and Nomination and Governance Committees
 
 ü
 No loans to any officers or directors
 
 ü
 Prohibit directors from engaging in hedging or derivative trading in NexGen securities
 
 ü
 Board Approved Code of Ethics and annual sign off
 
 ü
 Board oversight of the corporate strategy and annual operating plan 
 
 ü
 Board oversight of Enterprise Risk Management including cyber security and global insurance program
 
 ü
 Board oversight of Environmental, Social and Governance matters
 
 ü
 Annual evaluation of Board members, Board operations and Board Committees
 
 ü
 Recently updated charters for all Board committees
 
 ü
 In camera sessions held at the end of each Board meeting
 
DISCLOSURE

The Disclosure Instrument requires that the Company
annually disclose its corporate governance practices with reference to a series of corporate governance practices outlined in National
Policy 58-201 - Corporate Governance Guidelines (the “Guidelines”).

The following is a discussion of each of the
Company’s corporate governance practices for which disclosure is required by the Disclosure Instrument. Unless otherwise indicated,
the Board believes that its corporate governance practices are consistent with those recommended by the Guidelines. The Board has established
a Board Mandate set out in Schedule A and has adopted Company Corporate Governance Guidelines which are available on the Company’s
website at www.nexgenenergy.ca.

About the Board

The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship
of the Company on behalf of the Shareholders.

A fundamental objective of the Board is to enhance
and preserve long-term value to the Company, to confirm that NexGen meets its obligations on an ongoing basis and that NexGen operates
in a reliable and safe manner.

The Board has responsibility for managing its
own affairs, including constituting committees of the Board and determining director compensation. The Board oversees the systems of corporate
governance, financial reporting and controls to satisfy itself the Company reports adequate and fair financial information to Shareholders,
engaging in ethical and legal conduct.

The Board discharges this responsibility directly
and through delegation of selected and specific responsibilities to committees of the Board as described in the Board Mandate set out
in Schedule A and the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines which can be found on the Company’s website, www.nexgenenergy.ca.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 31
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

The Board currently has four committees:

•Audit Committee

•Compensation Committee

•Nomination and Governance Committee

•Sustainability Committee

Each committee acts on matters that fall within
their area of focus, on matters that may overlap between committees and ultimately may involve the Board as a whole. Charters have been
developed for each committee and additional information on the objectives and responsibilities is detailed on pages 36-39.

The Board engages management with respect to
strategic direction, long range planning, financial plans and strategies, corporate opportunities and the identification of risks.

In August of 2023, the Board adjusted the composition
of certain committees. Periodic rotation of committee members allows for fresh perspectives, while utilizing individual director’s
particular skills and experience and balancing the need for continuity.

Director and Executive Shareholdings

The directors and executive officers of NexGen, as
a group, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, or exercise control or direction over 28,992,513 shares, representing approximately
5.4% of the total number of Shares outstanding before giving effect to the exercise of options to purchase shares held by such directors
and executive officers. 

Enterprise Risk Management

NexGen’s Board Mandate explicitly recognizes
that the Board’s responsibility is to understand the primary risks of the Company’s business, which include health and safety,
strategic, financial, operational, environmental, human resources, information systems and cyber security, permitting and licensing, and
Environmental Social and Governance (“ESG”) risks. In addition, it requires NexGen’s Board to confirm that there
are enterprise risk management (“ERM”) systems in place to effectively and proactively monitor and manage those risks
with a view to the long-term optimization of NexGen.

NexGen management is responsible for predictively
identifying, evaluating, managing and mitigating NexGen’s exposure to risk. It is the Board’s responsibility to assess key
risks facing NexGen and to review management’s strategies for risk mitigation.

NexGen’s Board committees assist the Board
in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in certain areas of risk. The Company’s Audit Committee (the “Audit Committee”),
in its capacity as a committee of the Board, is directly responsible for overseeing the risk identification, assessment and management
program of the Company, and must, at least annually, review the Company’s ERM and evaluation process and discuss the ERM and steps
management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. The Nomination and Governance Committee has the responsibility to review the
risk oversight functions that are in place at the Board and committee level, including reviewing the applicable Board committee charters
to confirm that such risk oversight is appropriately allocated amongst the various committees.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 32
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Cyber Security

The protection and integrity of the Company’s
data and information systems is paramount. As company information systems face an increased risk of cybercrime in addition to unauthorized
access, malware, acts of vandalism, and acts of terrorism, NexGen is keenly aware of these risks and has proactively enhanced its cybersecurity
capabilities in line with the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Cybersecurity Framework to better prevent, detect,
and respond to cyber incidents, and reduce potential risk and impact on the organization.

The information systems assets encompass all
components of information systems, including network infrastructure and associated hardware and software, and the information stored thereon.
In 2023, NexGen undertook initiatives to further reduce cyber risk with the goal of maturing the Company's cybersecurity posture by performing
an in-depth cyber-risk assessment on our information systems and threat intelligence capabilities. Among other things, the Company utilized
third-party service providers to conduct a penetration audit and phishing testing during the year.

Security awareness and training are amongst the
core components of the cybersecurity program. A culture where staff understand the risks related to cybersecurity and are engaged is critical
to their role in mitigating those risks. Annual training for all employees is mandatory, and includes physical and remote access
controls and requirements, authentication requirements such as password management, email and internet threat management. NexGen
utilizes the services of a third-party managed service provider to review and report unusual or suspicious activity on our network and
employ several third-party threat detection and prevention solutions.

The Audit Committee is responsible for the broad
oversight of mitigation initiatives. Related matters within its mandate are reported to the Audit Committee, with cyber security matters
reviewed at least annually. To date the Company has not experienced any known breaches or direct losses relating to cyberattacks. One
of the most important things the company can do to prevent information security breaches is to ensure its people understand the importance
of protecting its data and systems. The Company has an Information Technology General Use and Cybersecurity Policy for its employees,
for which it seeks annual review and affirmation of compliance, with procedures and practices in place designed to protect our information
technology infrastructure.

The senior management team and all personnel are collectively
responsible to ensure protection mechanisms are being utilized and followed to prevent unauthorized access to our information systems.
Each user of NexGen’s information systems is responsible for abiding with the controls and guidelines that the Company establishes,
and for reporting any potential information security incidents of which they are aware.

Meeting Cadence and In Camera Sessions

The Board and management regularly discuss strategies
at quarterly Board meetings and as needed throughout the year. To facilitate open and candid meetings among the non-management directors
of the Board, in-camera sessions of the non-management directors are scheduled for the conclusion of each meeting of the Board and occurred
at every meeting as per the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines. Additional meetings for the non-management directors are
held as considered necessary. Moreover, the non-management directors have the opportunity to hold discussions in the absence of management
through their participation in the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nomination and Governance Committee, which are comprised
solely of non-management directors.

Ethical Business Conduct

As part of its responsibility for the stewardship
of the Company, the Board seeks to foster a culture of ethical conduct by requiring the Company to carry out its business in accordance
with high business and moral standards and applicable legal and financial requirements. The Board has formalized this in its Code of
Business Ethics (the “Code”). A copy of the Code is available under the Company’s profile on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca
and on the Company’s website at www.nexgenenergy.ca.

The Company’s Corporate Secretary is responsible
for communicating the Code to directors, officers, and employees. Compliance with the Code is maintained primarily through the reporting
process within the Company’s organizational structure. The Audit Committee monitors overall compliance with the Code and the Chief
Financial Officer reports any alleged breaches of the Code to the Audit Committee. The Company’s Chief Financial Officer and the
Audit Committee Chair then report to the Board at regular quarterly meetings of the Board on any issues or concerns that have been raised.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 33
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

In addition, the Company has a “whistleblower”
policy (the “Whistleblower Policy”) so that any employee of the Company or its subsidiaries may submit confidential
or anonymous concerns regarding questionable business practices without fear of dismissal or retaliation of any kind. The Whistleblower
Policy allows employees to direct their concerns to the Chair of the Audit Committee.

Certain members of the Board are directors or
officers of, or have significant shareholdings in, other mineral resource companies and, to the extent that such other companies may participate
in ventures in which the Company may participate, the directors of the Company may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding
terms respecting such participation. Where such a conflict of interest involves a particular Board member (i.e., where a Board member
has an interest in a material contract or material transaction involving the Company), such Board member will be required to disclose
his or her interest to the Board and refrain from voting at any Board meeting of the Company which considers such contract or transaction,
in accordance with applicable law.

In rare circumstances, if deemed appropriate,
the Company may establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may
have a conflict.

Director Independence

For the purposes of the Disclosure Instrument,
a director is independent if he or she has no direct or indirect material relationship with the Company. A “material relationship”
is one which could, in the view of the Board, reasonably be expected to interfere with his or her ability to exercise independent judgment.
Certain specified relationships will, in all circumstances, be considered, for the purposes of the Disclosure Instrument, to be material
relationships.

The Board has determined that, assuming all nominees
are elected as directors at the Meeting, in accordance with the standards of the NYSE and the Disclosure Instrument, the Board consists
of, and will continue to consist of ten individuals, eight (80%) of whom are independent. Accordingly, a
majority of the Board is independent.

The current independent directors are Warren
Gilman, Karri Howlett, Christopher McFadden, Richard Patricio, Trevor Thiele, Sybil Veenman, Don J. Roberts, and Ivan Mullany. Mr. Roberts
will not be standing for re-election at the Meeting. In the event that Ms. Pierce is elected to the Board at the Meeting, she is expected
to be an independent director.

Mr. McFadden has been appointed as the Chair
of the Board and is responsible for, among other things, providing leadership to ensure that the Board functions independently of management
and overseeing the governance obligations of the Board and its committees generally, as more fully described in the section of this Circular
entitled “Chair of the Board and CEO Position Descriptions and Director Responsibilities.”

Messrs. Curyer and Wall are not independent for
the purposes of the NYSE or the Disclosure Instrument. Mr. Curyer is the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr.
Wall’s consulting company, Flying W Consulting, is engaged to provide advice on key corporate matters for the Company.

In accordance with the Company’s Corporate
Governance Guidelines, all members of the Audit, Compensation, Nomination and Governance Committees of the Board are independent directors.

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

The Company is focused on Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion (“DEI”) strategies that maintain a welcoming organizational culture, positive conditions for engagement,
innovation, and high productivity that can be seen at every level of the business and lead to enhanced shareholder value. In addition
to NexGen’s workplace DEI commitments, the Company has a Diversity Policy that works in parallel with the Company’s DEI strategies.
The Board has delegated to the Nomination and Governance Committee responsibility for overseeing and ensuring implementation of the Diversity
Policy.

The Company seeks to recruit and select candidates
for the Board and for management positions that represent business acumen, skills, experience, and incorporates diversity, including equitable
and fair representation of people of different genders.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 34
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

In April 2018, the Board of Directors adopted
a policy regarding the diversity of the directors and management of the Company. The Board recognizes the valuable contributions made
to Board deliberations and management by people of different gender, geographical representation, education, experience, ethnicity, age
and disability. The Board also acknowledges the benefit of diversity in the Company’s leadership positions and the need to maximize
the effectiveness of the Board and management in their decision-making abilities. The Board focuses
on hiring the best quality individuals for the position, while encouraging and incorporating diversity on the Board and in executive officer
positions. The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing the Diversity Policy annually, updating it as required
and reporting to the full Board. 

The Board has determined after careful consideration
that in light of the Company’s culture, commitment to diversity and stage of development, that at this
time quotas or other formulaic recruiting approaches will not necessarily result in the identification or selection of suitable
candidates with the required specialized skillsets. Accordingly, such an approach would not now be in the
best interests of shareholders. Further, the results of NexGen’s organic and genuine approach to inclusion demonstrate that the
Company’s culture and approach facilitate strong diversity naturally. 

NexGen’s 2023 total
employees by gender statistics were 66% male and 34% female, in comparison to the Canadian average of females in mining which measured
16%[1]. In addition, two Board members
are female (increasing to three in the event of Ms. Pierce being successfully elected as a director of the Company at the Meeting), three
females sit on the NexGen leadership team (representing 25%), and in 2023 the Company appointed a female member (Tracy Primeau, ICD.D)
to the Company’s Special Advisory group. The Special Advisory Group is made up of senior leaders and professionals that bring a
breadth of experience, diverse perspectives, thought leadership and guidance to the Company as it evolves to be a leading mining producing
organization.

As part of an ongoing process of reviewing the
composition of the Board, including any new or complementary skillsets, gender diversity is considered. The Board has nominated Susannah
Pierce for election as a director of the Company at the Meeting. See “Election of Directors” in this Circular. In the event
Ms. Pierce is elected as a director of the Company at the Meeting, the total number of women on the Board would increase to three representing
33% of the non-executive members of the Board. The Board regularly reviews its composition and when conducting a search for suitable candidates,
will consider the level of diversity within the Board and senior leadership ranks in its search process and will instruct any recruiting
firms retained by the Company to prioritize the search for qualified diverse candidates.

The Company initiates, funds, and facilitates
career development across all aspects of mine development, investing in education, training, and certification for local and Indigenous
youth. NexGen is focused on optimizing benefits to all Indigenous peoples and stakeholders and will continue to prioritize hiring
from the LPA. 

In 2023, a total of 288 students engaged
in various initiatives, of which 112 were female, representing 39% of the total students. Furthermore, at NexGen’s active field
operation sites, 96% of the workforce comprises members of local communities within the Local Priority Area (LPA), of which residents
are predominantly Indigenous.

The Company has a clear and demonstrated
track record of diversity and in 2023 NexGen exceeded its committed aspirational target for 75% of the Project’s workforce being
composed of residents from LPA communities. In addition, 82% of the Rook I site overall spend (which included construction, service, and
supply contracts) was awarded to LPA-partnered or member-owned businesses, significantly exceeding the Company’s aspirational procurement
target of 30%. 

The Company will continue to review, assess,
and develop ways to promote diversity, including gender diversity, within the Company and industry, ensuring equal opportunity for all
to continue to advance and hold leadership roles in NexGen.

 

 

1Mining
HR: 2023 Canadian Mining Workplace Profile 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 35
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Diversity, Equity Inclusion
Commitments

The Company provides
a diverse work environment in which all individuals are treated with dignity and respect and afforded equal opportunity to succeed.

 

 
 Embrace Workforce Diversity
 Treat all employees equally, regardless of, among other things, age, sex, gender identity and expression, race, national or ethnic origin, religion, language, political beliefs, marital and family status, sexual orientation, physical ability and all other protected grounds. 
 
 Value Diversity of Thought and Perspective
 Leverage the diverse thinking, skills, experience and working styles of the Company’s employees and other stakeholders. 
 
 Respect Stakeholder Diversity
 Sustain strong and collaborative relationships with diverse Shareholders, communities, employees, governments, suppliers, and other stakeholders
 
Board Committees

The Board currently has four committees:

(i) the Audit Committee;

(ii) the Compensation Committee;

(iii) the Nomination and Governance
Committee; and

(iv) Sustainability
Committee.

The Board has adopted a written charter for
each of the committees all of which are available on the Company’s website https://www.nexgenenergy.ca/company/default.aspx#corporate-governance-link.
From time to time, the Board may also appoint ad hoc committees to assist in specific matters. The Board delegates specific mandates
to such ad hoc committees if and when they are established. The charters for all committees
were reviewed and updated as appropriate in 2023 in connection with the Company’s up-listing to the NYSE.

In August of 2023, the Board adjusted the composition
of certain committees. Periodic rotation of committee members allows for fresh perspectives, while utilizing individual director’s
particular skills and experience, and balancing the need for continuity.

Audit Committee

The Audit Committee has oversight responsibilities
with respect to the Company’s:

 
 
 
 Members
 Independent
 2023 Attendance
 
 •
 Financial
 statements and MD&A
 Current Members
 
 •
 Internal
 controls
 Trevor Thiele (Chair)
 ü
 2 of 2
 100%
 
 •
 External
 auditors
 Richard Patricio
 ü
 2 of 2
 100%
 
 •
 Risk
 management including cyber security
 Sybil Veenman
 ü
 2 of 2
 100%
 
 
 
 Prior to August 2023
 
 •
 Compliance
 with legal and regulatory requirements
 Trevor Thiele (Chair)
 ü
 1 of 2(1)
 100%
 
 •
 Management
 information technology
 Christopher McFadden
 ü
 2 of 2
 100%
 
 
 
 Richard Patricio
 ü
 2 of 2
 100%
 
 
 
 Warren Gilman
 ü
 2 of 2
 100%
 
 
 
 (1) Mr. Thiele did not attend the Q2 Audit Committee meeting on August 8, 2023, due to unforeseen travel circumstances.
 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 36
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

The Chair of the Audit Committee is
Trevor Thiele. Mr. Thiele has more than 30 years’ experience in senior finance roles in medium to large Australian listed companies
and holds a Bachelor of Arts in Accountancy from the University of South Australia and is a member of Chartered Accountants Australia
and New Zealand.

Under National Instrument 52-110 - Audit Committees
(“NI 52-110”), companies are required to provide disclosure with respect to their Audit Committee, including the
text of the Audit Committee’s charter, the composition of the Audit Committee and the fees paid to the external auditor. This information
is provided in the Company’s annual information form dated March 6, 2024 (the “AIF”) under the heading “Audit
Committee Disclosure” with respect to the financial year ended December 31, 2023.

The AIF is available for review by the public
on the SEDAR+ website located at www.sedarplus.ca under the Company’s profile and may
also be obtained free of charge by sending a written request to the Company at the Company’s head office located at Suite 3150,
1021 West Hastings Street, Vancouver, British Columbia V6E 0C3.

The Audit Committee may retain external consultants
and other advisers if it considers this appropriate to assist the Committee in fulfilling its duties.

Compensation Committee

The Compensation Committee is responsible
for identifying and mitigating risks associated with the Company’s compensation policies and practices, particularly those that
encourage or may encourage excessive risk-taking by executive officers. These responsibilities include oversight over the Company’s:

 
 
 
 Members
 Independent
 2023 Attendance
 
 •
 Compensation policies and guidelines
 Current Members
 
 •
 Executive compensation
 Richard Patricio (Chair)
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 •
 Succession management
 Don Roberts
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 •
 Performance evaluations and Board
 self-assessments
 Ivan Mullany
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 
 
 Prior to August 2023
 
 
 
 Richard Patricio (Chair)
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 
 
 Trevor Thiele
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 
 
 Sybil Veenman
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 

 

The Chair of the Compensation Committee
is Richard Patricio. Mr. Patricio has built a number of mining companies with global operations and has experience as a senior officer
and director in several companies listed on a number of stock exchanges. Mr. Patricio received his law degree from Osgoode Hall Law School
and is a member of the Law Society of Ontario.

The Compensation Committee maintains sufficient
discretion and flexibility in implementing compensation decisions such that unintended consequences in remuneration can be minimized,
while still allowing the Compensation Committee to be responsive to market conditions. The Compensation Committee makes recommendations
to the full Board, ensuring alignment.

Further details regarding the responsibilities,
powers and operation of the Compensation Committee are found within the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, on page 45 of this Circular.

The Compensation Committee may retain external
consultants and other advisers if it considers this appropriate to assist the Committee in fulfilling its duties.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 37
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Nomination and Governance Committee

The Nomination and Governance Committee has
oversight responsibilities with respect to:

 
 •
 Designing the criteria for Board 
 Members
 Independent
 2023 Attendance
 
 
 membership
 Current Members
 
 •
 Assigning Board members to Board
 Richard Patricio (Chair)
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 
 committees
 Warren Gilman
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 •
 Assessing
the competencies and skills
 of existing directors and committees
 Karri Howlett
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 
 
 Prior to August 2023
 
 •
 Determining if new directors with additional 
 Richard Patricio (Chair)
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 
 skills or experience are needed
 Sybil Veenman
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 •
 Continuing director education and
 Trevor Thiele
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%
 
 
 director succession
 
 
 
 
 

 

The Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee
is Richard Patricio. Mr. Patricio has built a number of mining companies with global operations and has experience as a senior officer
and director in several companies listed on a number of stock exchanges. Mr. Patricio received his law degree from Osgoode Hall Law School
and is a member of the Law Society of Ontario.

The Nomination and Government performs an annual
assessment designed to ensure that the Board is comprised of directors with the necessary skills and experience to facilitate effective
decision-making, directed toward superior shareholder value creation. The Nomination and Governance Committee may retain external consultants
or advisors if it considers this appropriate to assist the Committee in fulfilling its duties.

Sustainability Committee

Sustainability issues are of particular importance
to the Board due to the nature of the Company’s business. Accordingly, the Sustainability Committee is composed of (5) five directors
to provide oversight with respect to:

 
 
 Members
 Independent
 2023 Attendance

 •
 Environmental
 policies and practices
 Current Members

 •
 Corporate
 social responsibility
 Karri Howlett (Chair)
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%

 •
 Health
 and safety
 Sybil Veenman
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%

 •
 Compliance
 with applicable laws, 
 Ivan Mullany
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%

 
 legislation,
 industry standards, and 
 Brad Wall
 x
 1 of 1
 100%

 
 Company
objectives as they relate
 to the above areas
 Leigh Curyer
 x
 1 of 1
 100%

 
 
 Prior to August 2023

 
 
 Karri Howlett (Chair)
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%

 
 
 Christopher McFadden
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%

 
 
 Warren Gilman
 ü
 1 of 1
 100%

 
 
 Brad Wall
 x
 1 of 1
 100%

 
 
 Leigh Curyer
 x
 1 of 1
 100%

The Chair of the Sustainability Committee is
Karri Howlett. Ms. Howlett recently served on the Board of SaskPower (as Chair of the Safety, Environment and Social Responsibility Committee)
from February 2013 to May 2021. In addition, she has more than 20 years of experience in risk analysis, corporate strategy, mergers and
acquisitions and financial due diligence, Ms. Howlett holds a Bachelor of Commerce (with honors) in Finance from the University of Saskatchewan
and has earned the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation and the Chartered Director designation.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 38
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

The Sustainability Committee ensures that the
principal risk and opportunities related to environmental, corporate social responsibility, and health and safety have been identified
and that sufficient resources are allocated by management to address them. The Sustainability Committee may retain external consultants
and other advisers if it considers this appropriate to assist the Committee in fulfilling its duties.

Environmental, Social and Governance

Since its inception in 2011, sustainability considerations
have been embedded in all of NexGen’s business and operational decisions. Upon recommendation of the Sustainability Committee, the
Board has adopted a Sustainability Policy to formalize this approach. With sustainability being vital to the short and long-term success
of the Company, NexGen will release its 2023 Sustainability Report in May 2024 in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”)
Standards. The report highlights specific programs, initiatives, and organizational frameworks that NexGen created or expanded upon to
deliver as much positivity as possible and demonstrates NexGen’s seamless integration of sustainability across all areas of people
and project development, execution and operations, and long-term strategic planning.

Furthermore, NexGen is aligning with the recommendations
of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”), including the IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards
to build on transparency for stakeholders, and establish a framework to identify and understand the risks and opportunities that could
arise from climate change and assess their potential impacts on the Company.

An analysis has been performed comparing NexGen’s
current disclosures with the recommendations of the TCFD, and a multi-year roadmap has been created to ensure alignment with the Standards
and that progress is monitored throughout the coming years. NexGen will prepare reports annually with reference to the GRI Standards,
building on its disclosure and transparency, and reflecting the appropriate stage of the Company’s development.

Additionally, the Company will continue to monitor
the Environment, Social and Governance (“ESG”) disclosures in the jurisdictions where the Company operates, including
the IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards, and adjust the disclosures as needed.

Material sustainability topics for reporting
were determined through a review of NexGen’s Indigenous and stakeholder mapping and engagement, the GRI Mining and Metals sector
disclosures (2021), as well as various company filings and internal reports. The five most material topics were validated by NexGen’s
executive officers, and the Sustainability Committee. As NexGen remained in the engineering and permitting phase of development during
2023, there were no changes in Material Topics compared to the prior reporting period.

 
 Material Sustainability Topics
 
 Environmental Stewardship
 Responsible management of land, water and air resources through and beyond all phases of the Rook I Project lifecycle (construction, operations, closure and post-closure).
 
 Health & Safety
 Achieve zero harm across the organization, protecting the health, safety and well-being of employees, contractors and communities by ensuring a safe and healthy workplace.
 
 Reclamation & Continuing Land Use
 Responsible and progressive reclamation of the Rook I Project site, facilitating ongoing use of the land post-decommissioning.
 
 Regulatory Compliance
 Legal and ethical execution in compliance with applicable statutes and regulations through all phases of the Rook I Project lifecycle.
 
 Strong Community & Indigenous Relations
 Development of meaningful community programs that focus on youth, and are centered around culture, education, health and wellness, and economic capacity building.
 
A copy of the Company’s latest Sustainability
Report and Sustainability Policy are available on the Company’s website at www.nexgenenergy.ca.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 39
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Chair of the Board and CEO Position Descriptions
and Director Responsibilities

The Board has written position descriptions
for the roles of the Chair and CEO. The Chair of the Board’s role is set out in the Board Mandate and is responsible for the management,
development and effective performance of the Board, ensuring the Board fulfils its duties as required by law and as set forth in the Mandate.
The Chair ensures the focus of the Board’s attention is on strategically important issues; sets agendas; facilitates open dialogue
between the directors and with management; ensures a transparent and objective process for reviews and evaluations; and liaises with and
provides direction to the Board Secretary on matters affecting the work of the Board.

Each director on the Board is responsible for
contributing consistently and meaningfully, acting honestly and in good faith in the best interests of the Company. Each director on the
Board must exercise the care, diligence and skills that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances.

The CEO is responsible for leading the Company
in meeting its short-term operational and long-term strategic goals and reports to the Board on a regular and transparent basis concerning
the Company’s advancement of its goals, strategies and objectives.

Each director and officer of NexGen must demonstrate
the Company values and commit to the success of the organization.

Although the Board has developed written mandates
for each of the Board committees, the Board has not yet developed written position descriptions for the chairs of each Board committee.
The written mandate of each committee, however, delineates the role and responsibilities of each committee chair.

Board Skills Matrix

The Board Skills Matrix sets out the appropriate combination
of acumen, skills and experience that has been identified and considered necessary for effective stewardship for the Company through the
Nomination and Governance Committee’s annual evaluation process. The Board Skills Matrix is applied to assess Board composition,
ongoing development and in identifying and recruiting new directors in the future. The Board Skills Matrix reflects how certain of those
skills, experience, and other characteristics are currently represented on the Board, and how they will be represented should Ms. Pierce
be elected as a director at the Meeting.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 40
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 
 
 AGE
 TENURE
 TYPES OF SKILLS
 
 Directors
 46-54
 55-59
 60-72
 0-2 years of service
 3-7 years of service
 8-15 years of service
 Strategy + Leadership
 Mining Industry Experience
 Uranium/Nuclear
 Government Relations
 Compensation & Human Resources
 Accounting/Financial Reporting
 Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability
 Legal
 International Business
 M&A and Capital Markets
 Board Service/Governance
 
 Curyer
 ü
 
 
 
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 McFadden
 
 ü
 
 
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 Patricio
 ü
 
 
 
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 Thiele
 
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 ü
 
 
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 Gilman
 
 
 ü
 
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 
 
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 Veenman
 
 
 ü
 
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
 Howlett
 ü
 
 
 
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 
 
 ü
 ü
 
 Wall
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 Mullany
 
 
 ü
 ü
 
 
 ü
 ü
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 ü
 
 ü
 
 Pierce (proposed director)
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 
 ü
 
 ü
 ü
 ü
 
Terms

The Nomination and Governance Committee
identifies candidates for nomination to the Board that possess the skills and greatest ability to strengthen the Board. The Nomination
and Governance Committee has a rigorous process, annually reviewing the composition of the Board, including the age and tenure of individual
directors. The Board strives to achieve a balance between depth of experience and the need for renewal and new perspectives evident by
the fact Don Roberts and Ivan Mullany were appointed to the Board over the past 2 years. Mr. Roberts, formerly a nominee of CEF to the
Board will not be standing for re-election at the Meeting, and the Board has nominated Susannah Pierce for election as a director of the
Company at the Meeting. See “Election of Directors” in this Circular.

The Nomination and Governance Committee has determined
that the Board is highly effective and well composed and that no appreciable benefit would be derived from the introduction of term or
retirement age limits at this time. The average tenure of independent directors is 6.5 years vs the S&P Composite which is 7.1 years.

 

The below chart demonstrates Board Renewal over the last six years:

 

 
 Year Appointed
 Director
 
 2018
 Sybil Veenman and Karri Howlett
 
 2019
 Brad Wall
 
 2022
 Don J. Roberts(1)
 
 2023
 Ivan Mullany
 
 

Notes:

(1)Mr. Roberts will not be standing
for re-election at the Meeting. The Board has nominated Susannah Pierce for election as a director of the Company at the Meeting.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 41
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Orientation and Continuing Education

Given the current size of the Company and its
stage of development, and as each new director will have a different skill set and professional background, specific orientation and training
activities are tailored to the particular needs and experience of each director and consist primarily of meetings with members of the
executive management team.

The Board provides continuing education for directors
on an ad hoc basis in respect of issues that are appropriate for them to meet their obligations as directors. All the directors
are actively involved in their respective areas of expertise and have full access to management. Directors are periodically provided with
the opportunity to visit the Company’s properties to become familiar with the Company’s operations. Presentations by management
and the Company’s advisors are also organized, as needed, to provide ongoing director education.

Board Performance Assessments

The Nomination and Governance Committee annually
manages a formal process for assessing the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, its committees and its individual directors. As part
of this process, each director completes a detailed questionnaire based on both quantitative and qualitative ratings of their and the
Board’s performance in seven key areas, including the effectiveness and contribution of fellow directors, and allows for directors
to provide subjective comments in each of those areas.

The Nomination and Governance Committee reviews
the results of the Board assessment and makes a final report to the Board with any recommendations. Any action plans as a result of the
review are followed-up and monitored by the Nomination and Governance Committee.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 42
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

A key action from the Board evaluation process
in 2023 was the rotation of membership of the different committees. In August, the new committee membership was approved as per below:

 
 Committee
 New Members effective August 2023
 
 Audit Committee
 
 Trevor Thiele - Chair
 Richard Patricio
 Sybil Veenman (new)
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee
 
 Richard Patricio - Chair
 Karri Howlett (new)
 Warren Gilman (new)
 
 Compensation Committee(1)
 
 Richard Patricio - Chair
 Ivan Mullany (new)
 
 Sustainability Committee
 
 Karri Howlett - Chair
 Sybil Veenman (new)
 Ivan Mullany (new)
 Leigh Curyer (non-independent)
 Brad Wall (non-independent)
 
Notes:

(1)Mr. Roberts, who is currently a new member of the Compensation Committee, will not be standing for re-election
at the Meeting.

Other Directorships

Currently, the following directors proposed for
re-election at the Meeting serve as directors of the following reporting issuers or reporting issuer equivalents:

 
 Name of Director
 Reporting Issuer(s) or Equivalent(s)
 
 Leigh Curyer
 IsoEnergy Ltd. (1)
 
 Christopher McFadden
 
 IsoEnergy Ltd. (1)
 Engenco Ltd.
 
 Richard Patricio
 
 IsoEnergy Ltd. (1)
 Toro Energy Limited
 
 Warren Gilman
 
 Gold Royalty Corp.
 Queens Road Capital Investment Ltd.
 
 Sybil Veenman
 
 Royal Gold Inc.
 Major Drilling Group International Inc.
 
 Karri Howlett
 
 Gold Royalty Corp.
 March Consulting Associates Inc.
 
 Brad Wall
 
 Whitecap Resources Inc.
 Maxim Power Corp.
 Helium Evolution Incorporated
 

Notes:

(1)Messrs. Curyer, McFadden, and
Patricio serve as directors of IsoEnergy Ltd., a TSX Venture Exchange listed company of which NexGen is the largest shareholder, with
beneficial ownership of approximately 32.8% of IsoEnergy’s outstanding common shares. 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 43
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Messrs. Patricio and Gilman each hold senior
executive roles with strategic investors in NexGen. Mr. Patricio, as President and CEO of Mega Uranium Ltd., a NexGen shareholder, serves
as a Mega Uranium representative on the board of directors of Toro Energy Ltd. in addition to IsoEnergy Ltd., each being an investee company
of Mega Uranium. Mr. Gilman is Chairman and CEO of Queen’s Road Capital Investment Ltd., a shareholder and holder of convertible
debentures in NexGen.

Attendance

The Board schedules regular meetings of the
Board and its committees with perfect attendance by directors (with the exception of one director at one Board meeting due to unforeseen
circumstances). In addition to quarterly Board meetings noted below, members of the Board also informally met twice in 2023 specifically
to discuss the strategic direction of the Company.

 
 Director
 Board Meetings Attended
 
 Leigh Curyer
 4 of 4
 
 Christopher McFadden
 4 of 4
 
 Richard Patricio
 4 of 4
 
 Trevor Thiele (1)
 3 of 4
 
 Warren Gilman
 4 of 4
 
 Sybil Veenman
 4 of 4
 
 Karri Howlett
 4 of 4
 
 Brad Wall
 4 of 4
 
 Don J. Roberts
 4 of 4
 
 Ivan Mullany
 4 of 4
 

Note:

(1)Mr. Thiele did not attend the Q2 Board meeting on August 8, 2023, due to unforeseen
travel circumstances.

The Board and its committees held the following
number of meetings in the financial year ended December 31, 2023. In addition, the Board participated in two strategic sessions in March
and November.

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 2023
 
 Board
 4
 
 Audit Committee
 4
 
 Compensation Committee
 2 (1)
 
 Nomination and Governance Committee
 2 (1)
 
 Sustainability Committee
 2
 
Note:

(1)Each of the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Compensation
Committee held several informal meetings throughout the year.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 44
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

COMPENSATION
DISCUSSION AND 
ANALYSIS

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

 
 COMPENSATION AT A GLANCE
 48
 
 INTRODUCTION
 48
 
 COMPANY OVERVIEW
 49
 
 THE COMPANY’S STRATEGIC FOCUS
 50
 
 The Company’s Stock Price Has Outperformed Its Peers Since Inception
 50
 
 The Company Demonstrates Efficient Use of Capital
 52
 
 COMPENSATION GOVERNANCE
 54
 
 The Role of the Compensation Committee
 54
 
 Composition of the Compensation Committee
 55
 
 Executive Compensation Decision Making Process
 55
 
 Compensation Risk Management
 56
 
 Anti-Hedging
 56
 
 Clawback Policy
 57
 
 Equity Ownership Guidelines
 57
 
 Succession Management
 57
 
 Executive Compensation Philosophy
 58
 
 Executive Compensation Objectives
 58
 
 Executive Compensation Peer Group and Benchmarking
 58
 
 Independent Compensation Consultant
 59
 
 ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 60
 
 Base Salaries
 61
 
 Short-Term Incentive Awards
 61
 
 Long-Term Incentive Awards
 61
 
 2023 NEXGEN PERFOMANCE SCORECARD
 62
 
 Market Performance Overview
 62
 
 2023 Company Objectives and Achievements
 63
 
 CEO Performance
 64
 
 2023 Assessment of Objectives
 64
 
 CEO COMPENSATION SUMMARY
 65
 
 Total Market Capitalization Return vs. Named Executive Pay
 65
 
 2023 Compensation Mix
 66
 
 CEO Stock Option Overview
 66
 
 CEO Share Ownership and Holdings
 68
 
 Summary Compensation Table
 69
 
 Incentive Plan Awards
 70
 
 Termination and Change of Control Benefits
 71
 
 Director Compensation
 72
 
 Incentive Plan Awards
 74
 
 Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans
 76
 
 Stock Option History
 77
 
 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 45
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Message
from the compensation committee CHAIR richard patricio

 

Dear Shareholders,

On behalf of the Board and the Compensation Committee,
I am pleased to introduce the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (“CD&A”). The Board and the Compensation Committee
understand the importance of their oversight and responsibility with respect to the Compensation approach at NexGen.

Company’s Compensation Approach

NexGen’s compensation practices are based
on a pay-for-performance philosophy that rewards high performance that aligns with stakeholders’ interests. The compensation program
is specifically designed with the right mix of components to attract, incentivize and retain employees to develop and execute on NexGen’s
strategic plan and drive long-term, sustainable shareholder value in accordance with the Company’s stage of development. A large
portion of the executives’ compensation is ‘at risk’, which drives the highest levels of ownership and accountability
and enables the team to remain lean given the amount each individual is actually responsible for. So that NexGen can continue to set elite
standards, it must attract top talent that is transparent in approach, resilient and highly accountable. Our executive compensation program
is designed to attract the right individuals for our culture at each stage of development and has been a key factor in the Company’s
continued long term and unrivalled success.

NexGen’s industry-leading stock price performance
and Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) since inception as a publicly traded company demonstrate the success of the program.

2023 Compensation Focus:

As NexGen continues its progress in becoming an operating,
revenue producing mining company, the Compensation Committee charged Mercer, its independent compensation consultant, in 2023 to conduct
an extensive review of the entire compensation program and to develop a comprehensive roadmap aligned with the Company's evolving needs.
The focus was to align executive compensation with each stage of development, manage executive compensation risk and support the attraction
of critical employees needed to support our successful evolution through construction and into an operating company. As described below,
this process required the members of the Compensation Committee to spend extensive amounts of time in formal and informal meetings, as
well as interviews and consultations with Mercer to ensure the Company reached the right results.

Mercer met with key stakeholders from the Board
which consisted of members from the Compensation Committee and the Board Chair. A disciplined approach was taken by Mercer and the Compensation
Committee to assess and determine the appropriate compensation peer group for NexGen at its current state of development. Upon determination
of the peer group, Mercer completed a deep analysis with respect to director and executive compensation.

This roadmap takes into consideration three key
stages in NexGen's transformation: 1) permitting, which is reflective of NexGen’s existing compensation framework, 2) construction,
where compensation programs will shift appropriately towards the third and final stage, and 3) operational, where compensation programs
will be tailored to reflect the Company as a fully operational mining company.

Pending receipt of Mercer’s final recommendations
on the overall compensation program, the Board is expected to adopt the 2024 LTI Plan to provide the Company with flexibility to grant
various types of awards and to align the interests of participants with the interests of Shareholders, while allowing NexGen to remain
competitive in the marketplace.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 46
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Say on Pay

The
Board and the Compensation Committee understands the importance of Say on Pay and extensive consideration was given to a vote regarding
executive compensation (“Say on Pay”). However, the Board and its advisors view Say on Pay at this stage as not appropriate
given the Company is in the development stage and after extensive consideration has developed a committed philosophy of attracting the
very best candidates to ensure the success of the Rook I Project, on which NexGen’s business depends. Nevertheless, the Compensation
Committee and the Board are laser focused on continuing to deliver industry leading shareholder value. The Compensation Committee and
the Board will continue to review the adoption of Say on Pay as NexGen evolves. 

2023 Company Performance:

The
Company achieved a number of critical objectives in 2023, including the historic milestone of obtaining 100% local Indigenous support,
a significant and rare achievement for companies in the global resource sector. Equally as precedent setting, NexGen received Provincial
Environmental Assessment approval for its 100% owned Rook I Project, making it the first company in more than 20 years to receive such
approval for a greenfield uranium project in Saskatchewan. The Company’s share price increased by 55% outperforming
the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index, S&P/TSX Composite Total Return Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF. 
This unprecedent performance demonstrates that the Company has the right compensation plan in place to incentivize the right team
to deliver exceptional value. 

 

In
summary, the Board, the Compensation Committee, and management are committed to delivering long-term value for our shareholders. We believe
the design of our current and future programs provide the ability to motivate, reward and retain high performing executives to create
and deliver value. The roadmap developed with Mercer will provide the flexibility required to support NexGen through the different stages
of development for long-term success and we will continually look at improving this as the Company evolves at different stages.

 

 

 

Richard Patricio

Chair of the Compensation Committee

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 47
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

COMPENSATION AT A GLANCE

NexGen upholds the best practices that drive
company-wide excellence in order to deliver superior, sustainable shareholder value by incentivizing achievement of both short-term operational
goals and long-term strategic goals.

 
 Best Practice Highlights
 
 ü
 Pay for performance
 
 ü
 Engage an independent compensation advisor
 
 ü
 Benchmark executive compensation program against an appropriate peer group
 
 ü
 94% of CEO compensation and 86% of other Executives (as defined below) compensation is at risk
 
 ü
 Have maximum payout cap on short-term incentive program
 
 ü
 Have a Clawback Policy, an Anti-Hedging Policy and an Insider Trading Policy
 
 ü
 The Board may exercise discretion when considering compensation decisions to reduce or increase the size of any award or payout to reflect extraordinary events, prevailing circumstances or market conditions
 
 

 
 NexGen does not
 
 ü
 Guarantee annual base salary increases or incentive compensation including stock options or other equity incentives
 
 ü
 Reprice stock options
 
 ü
 Offer excessive perquisites
 
 ü
 Offer loans to directors or officers
 
INTRODUCTION

This section provides information on the executive
compensation program for 2023. In August 2023, Benjamin Salter (previously Vice President, Finance) was appointed to the role of Chief
Financial Officer.

NexGen’s Named Executive Officers in 2023,
as defined in Form 51-102F6 - Statement of Executive Compensation were as follows:

 
 • Leigh Curyer
 President and Chief Executive Officer (President and CEO)
 
 • Travis McPherson
 Chief Commercial Officer
 
 • Monica Kras
 Vice President, Corporate Development
 
 • Luke Moger
 Vice President, Environment, Permitting & Licensing 
 
 • Benjamin Salter
 Chief Financial Officer
 
 • Harpreet Dhaliwal
 Chief Financial Officer (former)
 
The Named Executive Officers are referred to
as “Executives” in the Circular.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 48
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

COMPANY OVERVIEW

NexGen Energy Ltd. Is a Canadian-based company
founded in 2011 to acquire, discover and develop the world’s next major uranium project in Saskatchewan’s Athabasca Basin.
Today NexGen is a well-funded development-stage company, focused on advancing the Arrow Deposit with average annual production of ~29
million pounds over the first five years, beginning at the commencement of commercial production. The Company is delivering on its objective
of becoming a world-leading clean energy supplier. Guided by the values of honesty, accountability, resilience and respect, NexGen is
advancing its organizational and project objectives with a commitment to elite standards in every aspect of mine development for long-term
economic, environmental and social success.

NexGen is dedicated to developing the Rook I
Project in an optimal manner incorporating high levels of environmental stewardship, social advancement, and sustainable economic benefits
for all stakeholders. In November 2023, the Company received Provincial Environmental Assessment approval for the Rook I Project, the
first company in 20 years to receive this approval for a uranium project in Saskatchewan.

The Company believes future operations will be
profitable as a result of a combination of factors, notably (1) the scale, (2) the ability to mine using conventional methods, (3) the
planned contracting strategy of 100% leverage to uranium prices, (4) the approach and partnership with local indigenous relations, and
(5) the location in a tier-1 jurisdiction positioning the Company as a future supplier of choice:

•The Rook I Project is expected to deliver average
annual production for the first five years of approximately 29 million pounds.

•The geological setting of the Rook I Project and
the deposit’s high grade allows NexGen to utilize a cost-effective bulk mining method.

•The expected scale and position allow the Company
to approach contracting differently, intending to term contract future production without floors or ceilings. 

•In June 2023, NexGen signed the fourth and final
impact benefit agreement with Metis Nation - Saskatchewan and Métis Nation - Saskatchewan
Northern Region 2 providing the full support of our local indigenous partners. 

•The Company sets and maintains elite standards
in all of its planning and execution, translating into a culture of constant evolution and continuous improvement.

•Recent geopolitical events and operational disruptions
have highlighted the strategic value of new sources of uranium supply from tier 1, politically stable jurisdictions. 

NexGen’s dynamic and diverse team of experienced
uranium and industry professionals brings together a world of leading-edge expertise across the entire mining life cycle, all backed by
a global base of long-term capital. The Company is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) and the NYSE under
the ticker symbol NXE, and on the Australian Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol (“NXG”), and are headquartered
in Vancouver, British Columbia, with an Operations Office in Saskatoon, and an office in La Loche, Saskatchewan.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 49
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

THE COMPANY’S STRATEGIC
FOCUS

The Company’s objective is to increase shareholder
value through the optimized delivery of the Rook I Project, laying the foundation for a globally significant mining company. NexGen’s
key strategies to achieve this objective are described below:

Obtaining Federal Environmental
Assessment approval and license to construct, building upon receipt of the Provincial Environmental Assessment approval in November 2023.

•On November 9th, 2023, the Company
received Provincial environmental assessment approval for the Rook I Project. 

•First Company in 20 years to receive this approval
for a uranium project in Saskatchewan. 

Growing the Company’s
reserves through exploration. 

•NexGen is well-funded to accelerate the understanding
of the regional potential of our total mineral claim position of 192,734 hectares in the southwest Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan. 

•The 2023 exploration program applied high-resolution
geophysical surveys across all properties and more than 22,000 meters of drilling that yielded a more comprehensive understanding of the
geology in our prospective targets. 

•2024 activities focused on a 30,000-meter exploration
drill program that will test priority targets identified from the 2023 exploration campaign. 

•Discovery of new intense mineralization in March
2024 on the 100% owned SW2 property, approximately 3.5 kilometers from the Arrow deposit.

Continuing to de-risk the Company’s
path to production. 

•NexGen is well funded to continue to de-risk our
path to production at the Rook I Project. 

•Site confirmation program completed which included
a 200-person accommodation camp, geotechnical drilling at the production and exhaust shaft and earthworks.

•Finalizing FEED and advancing detailed engineering.

Advancing discussions with lenders
and customers to optimize the Company’s construction funding. 

•Indications of interest in excess of US$1 billion.

•NexGen is utilizing a volume-based contracting
approach with significant interest received to date. 

•NexGen’s approach will provide customers
with reliable, flexible supply with the added knowledge that it has been sourced in an elite ESG manner. 

The Company’s Stock Price Has Outperformed
Its Peers Since Inception

Since the Company’s initial listing on
the TSX Venture Exchange in 2013, NexGen’s share price has outperformed the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index, S&P/TSX Composite
Total Return Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF. The Company has also outperformed each index on a one-year, three-year, five-year
and seven-year basis. This exceptional share-price performance demonstrates the effectiveness of the compensation program instituted
and overseen by the Compensation Committee and the commitment by leadership in creating long-term shareholder value while advancing the
Rook I Project in an optimal manner.

The following graphs compare the Company’s
cumulative TSR since inception and over the seven, three, five, and one most recently completed financial years ending December 31, 2023.
It portrays the growth of $100 invested in the common shares of NexGen over those periods compared to $100 invested in the S&P/TSX
Composite Total Return Index, S&P/TSX Global Mining Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF for the same time period.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 50
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 

From the Company’s initial listing on the
TSX Venture Exchange in April 2013 to December 31, 2023, NexGen’s share price has increased 2,475% outperforming the S&P/TSX
Global Mining Index, S&P/TSX Composite Total Return Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF.

For the seven-year period ended December 31, 2023,
NexGen’s share price increased 298% outperforming the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index, S&P/TSX Composite Total Return
Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 51
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

For the five-year period ended December 31,
2023, NexGen’s share price increased 285% outperforming the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index, the S&P/TSX Composite Total
Return Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF.

 

For the three-year period ended December 31, 2023,
NexGen’s share price increased 164% outperforming the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index, S&P/TSX Composite Total Return
Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF.

 

For the one-year period ended December 31, 2023,
NexGen’s share price increased 55% outperforming the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index, S&P/TSX Composite Total Return
Index, and the Global X Uranium ETF.

The Company’s executive compensation is
based on several factors including, but not limited to, the demand for and supply of skilled professionals in the resource industry generally,
individual performance, the Company’s performance, and other factors. The trading price of the common shares on the TSX and NYSE
is subject to fluctuation based on several factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Company and its executive officers. These
include, among other things, market perception of the Company’s ability to achieve planned growth or results, trading volume in
the Company’s common shares, and changes in general conditions in the economy and financial markets including commodity prices.

The Company Demonstrates Efficient Use of Capital

Since its listing in 2013, NexGen has continuously
demonstrated that it leads the sector in the efficient use of capital in terms of the ratio of expenditure incurred on Exploration and
Development (as defined below) of its projects relative to the Executives’ salaries. NexGen’s ratio of Exploration and Development
spend relative to its General and Administrative spend (as defined below) is the highest compared to its Uranium Peers, while the Company’s
ratio of General and Administrative spend relative to its market capitalization is the lowest compared to its Uranium Peers, which
further emphasizes the Company’s efficient use of capital.

Further, the cost per pound of U3O8
discovered for a uranium resource over 100Mlbs is significantly the lowest in history. 2020 saw a temporary reduction in this ratio which
was expected due to the stage of the Rook I Project transitioning from resource definition, technical and environmental studies throughout
2016-2019 into final feasibility and permitting during 2020 in addition to the temporary suspension of some activities due to COVID-19.
From 2021 to 2023, upon completion of the feasibility study, the Company advanced the FEED of the Rook I Project, which once again demonstrated
NexGen’s highly efficient and sector-leading use of capital.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 52
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Exploration
and Development Spend Per Dollar of Executive Salary ($C) (as of December 31)
(1)

 

 

Notes:

(1)Exploration and Development spend includes costs related to exploration, drilling, environmental and permitting,
engineering and design, direct labour and associated costs. Source: Publicly filed Annual Financial Statements and Management Information
Circular of the management selected “Uranium Peers” for 2023, being Cameco Corp, Denison Mines Corp, Energy Fuels Inc,
Fission Uranium Corp and Uranium Energy Corp.

(2)2022 Salaries were used for the Uranium Peers who had not yet released 2023 Salaries in their 2024 Management
Information circular.

General and Administrative
Spend Per Dollar of Exploration and Development Spend ($C) (as of December 31)(1)

 

Notes: 

(1)Exploration and Development spend includes costs related to exploration,
drilling, environmental and permitting, engineering and design, direct labour and associated costs. General and Administrative spend includes
General or Administrative expenses as defined in each peer’s financial statements and does not include selling costs. Source: Publicly
filed Annual Financial Statements and Management Information Circular of the management selected “Uranium Peers”, being
Cameco Corp, Denison Mines Corp, Energy Fuels Inc, Fission Uranium Corp and Uranium Energy Corp.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 53
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

General and Administrative
Spend as a Percentage of Market Capitalization (as of December 31) (1)(2)

 

Notes: 

(1)General and Administrative spend includes General or Administrative expenses as defined in each peer’s
financial statements and does not include selling costs. Source: Publicly filed Annual Financial Statements and Management Information
Circular of the management selected “Uranium Peers”, being Cameco Corp, Denison Mines Corp, Energy Fuels Inc, Fission
Uranium Corp and Uranium Energy Corp.

(2)Peer Market Capitalization sourced from S&P Capital IQ.

COMPENSATION GOVERNANCE

The Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s
compensation program. The Board has delegated certain oversight responsibilities in this regard to the Compensation Committee but retains
final authority over the Company’s compensation program and process.

The Role of the Compensation Committee

The Compensation Committee assists the Board
in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to human resources and compensation issues. The Compensation Committee meets through a combination
of formal meetings between two to four times per year and holds in-camera sessions, without the presence of management, as well as informal
meetings throughout the year as appropriate.

The Compensation Committee consults with the
Board on executive compensation related to:

•establishing the Company’s general compensation
philosophy and overseeing the development and implementation of the Company’s compensation programs to ensure they further the Company’s
strategy and are aligned with the interests of Shareholders.

•reviewing and approving Company goals and objectives
relevant to the compensation of the CEO, evaluating the performance of the CEO in light of those goals and objectives, and setting the
CEO’s compensation level based on this evaluation, subject to the approval of the Board.

•reviewing and approving compensation, incentive
plans, and equity-based plans for all other senior officers of the Company after considering recommendations of the CEO, all within the
compensation policies and guidelines approved by the Board.

•reviewing the adequacy and form of the compensation
of directors and ensuring that the compensation realistically reflects the responsibilities and risks involved. 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 54
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

The Chief Executive Officer completes a review
of executive officer performance in accordance with the evaluation criteria set out for the year. As a result of the evaluation, as well
as a subjective assessment, the CEO provides recommendations to the Compensation Committee with respect to base salaries, STI and LTI
awards for executive officers. The Compensation Committee takes into consideration the CEO’s recommendations in completing its review
and ultimate recommendations to the Board.

Composition of the Compensation Committee

The Compensation Committee is comprised of three
(3) independent members of the Board: Richard Patricio (Chair), Don Roberts, and Ivan Mullany.
Mr. Roberts and Mr. Mullany joined the Committee in August 2023. Mr. Roberts will not be standing for re-election as a director of the
Company at the Meeting. 

Messrs. Roberts and Mullany possess the relevant
decision-making skills that make them suitable members of the Compensation Committee by virtue of their respective experience as executives
and their exposure to capital markets, corporate governance projects, construction and regulatory matters. Mr. Roberts is a leading
financial director and chartered accountant globally. He has been actively involved in investor relations, corporate governance,
capital markets activities, acquisitions and mergers and corporate restructuring. He also sits as Director and Chairman of audit committees
on a number of companies. Mr. Mullany has over 35 years in the global mining industry with extensive leadership experience across
project development, operation excellence, innovation, business strategy and governance. Mr. Patricio, the Chair of the Committee,
has similar skills and experience and, as a Board member since the inception of the Company, is intimately familiar with its overall corporate
strategy, operations and senior management team. As a result, each Committee member is well qualified to make decisions on the suitability
of the Company’s compensation policies and practices.

A general description of the education and experience
of the Compensation Committee members who will be standing for re-election as directors of the Company at the Meeting, which is relevant
to the performance of their responsibilities as Compensation Committee members, is contained in their respective biographies set out under
“Election of Directors” in this Circular.

Executive Compensation Decision Making Process

Corporate Scorecard & Scorecard Rating
Process

 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 55
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

CEO and NEO Compensation Process

 

Note:

(1)The Board carries out its deliberations and voting with respect to the approval of CEO compensation without
the CEO being present.

Compensation Risk Management

The Compensation Committee is responsible for
identifying any risks associated with the Company’s compensation policies and practices and considering the implications of any
such risks ensuring they are mitigated, particularly those arising from policies and practices that may encourage unjustified risk-taking
by executive officers. The Compensation Committee maintains sufficient discretion and flexibility in implementing compensation decisions
such that unintended consequences in remuneration can be minimized, while still allowing the Compensation Committee to be responsive to
market conditions.

Incentive compensation is paid in relation to
milestones regarding the advancement of NexGen’s projects which are subject to considerable review, contestability, and assessment.
As such, the Compensation Committee considers that its compensation practices encourage healthy leadership approaches incorporating objective
risk assessment.

The Board’s oversight of the strategic
direction, budgetary process and expenditure limits are used to mitigate compensation policy risks.

Key risk-mitigating features in the compensation
structure include:

•Engagement of an independent compensation advisor

•Annual review of compensation programs

•Establishing annual corporate and individual performance objectives

•Fixed and variable compensation

•Short-term and long-term incentives

•Board discretion

•Clawback and anti-hedging policies

•Appointment of a Human Resources (HR) executive

Anti-Hedging

Pursuant to the Company’s Code of Business Ethics,
the Company’s executive officers and directors are not permitted to purchase financial instruments, including, for greater certainty,
prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars, or units of exchange funds, that are designed to hedge or offset a decrease
in market value of equity securities granted as compensation or held, directly or indirectly, by the executive officer or director.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 56
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Clawback Policy

On November 28, 2023, the Board adopted a new Clawback
Policy, under which it will, in the event of an Accounting Restatement, recover excess incentive compensation received by covered executives
of the Company.

An Accounting Restatement is where the Company
is required to prepare an accounting restatement of its financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
due to the Company’s material non-compliance with any financial reporting requirements under U.S. federal securities laws (including
any required accounting restatement to correct an error in previously issued financial statements that is material to the previously issued
financial statements, or that would result in a material misstatement if the error were corrected in the current period or left uncorrected
in the current period). The determination of the time when the Company is required to prepare an Accounting Restatement shall be made
in accordance with applicable SEC and national securities exchange rules and regulations in the U.S.

An Accounting Restatement does not include
situations in which financial statement changes did not result from material non-compliance with financial reporting requirements, such
as retrospective: (i) application of a change in accounting principles; (ii) revision to reportable segment information due to a change
in the structure of the Company’s internal organization; (iii) reclassification due to a discontinued operation; (iv) application
of a change in reporting entity, such as from a reorganization of entities under common control; (v) adjustment to provision amounts in
connection with a prior business combination; and (vi) revision for stock splits, stock dividends, reverse stock splits or other changes
in capital structure.

In addition, under the Policy, the Company may also recover all or a portion
of incentive compensation from covered executives and certain other key employees where such employees have engaged in detrimental conduct.

This Policy does not preclude the Company from taking any other action
to enforce an employee’s obligations to the Company, including termination of employment or instigation of any legal proceedings.

Equity Ownership Guidelines

The Board believes it is in the best interests
of the Company and Shareholders to align the financial interests of NexGen’s leadership with those of the Shareholders. In 2019,
the Board approved the Share Ownership Guidelines which sets out mandatory equity ownership requirements for directors of the Company.
The minimum ownership guidelines being a multiple of 3x the annual cash retainer, valued based on the share price, at the higher of the
measurement date or acquisition date, are expected to be satisfied by each director within five (5) years after first becoming subject
to these ownership requirements or after being appointed as a director. Once the director level of equity ownership satisfies the applicable
minimum ownership requirements pursuant to the Share Ownership Guidelines, such individual is expected to maintain their minimum ownership
levels for as long as they remain subject to the Ownership Guidelines.

Historically, Board members and Executives have
not exercised vested options until the last month of the term of the option.

Leigh Curyer, CEO and Board member, holds a multiple
of 57 times his base salary in common shares (based on the market value of the Company’s shares as of December 31, 2023) which were
all bought outright and not provided to him through direct share-based incentives.

Succession Management

The Board oversees the succession planning with
respect to management. The CEO is responsible for identifying and developing internal CEO succession candidates. The CEO ensures NexGen
has the right leadership development initiatives in place for executive succession. In addition, the CEO, Chief Commercial Officer, HR
and other senior management meet regularly to review the talent across the organization and address strategies that support succession
and organization effectiveness.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 57
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Executive Compensation Philosophy

NexGen’s compensation is designed to be
competitive with other North American mining development and operating companies in the uranium and resources sector that also have similar
scope and growth trajectories.

Each position is evaluated to establish skill requirements
and a level of responsibility to provide a basis for internal and external comparisons. The Board and the Compensation Committee assess
a number of aspects when structuring compensation policies and programs and individual compensation levels. These include:

•Long-term interests of shareholders

•Internal and external comparisons

•Values and culture including accountability and ownership

•Recommendations made by independent compensation consultants retained by the Compensation Committee, from
time to time

•Each executive officer’s individual performance and contribution towards meeting the Company goals
and objectives

Executive Compensation Objectives

The goal of executive compensation at NexGen
is to attract, motivate, retain and reward a knowledgeable, driven high performance management team and to encourage them to attain and
exceed expectations focused on driving superior, sustainable shareholder value creation.

NexGen’s compensation practices are based
on a pay-for-performance philosophy in which assessment of performance is based on the Company’s financial and operational performance
as well as individual contributions.

The compensation program is designed to reward
each executive officer based on corporate and individual performance and is also designed to incentivize such executive officers to drive
the organization’s growth in a sustainable and prudent way.

The following key principles guide the Company’s
overall compensation philosophy:

•Attract, retain, motivate and engage high caliber talent whose expertise, skills, performance are critical
to the organization’s success.

•Align employees’ interests with the strategic visions and business objectives of NexGen.

•Focus employees on the key business factors that affect long-term Shareholder value.

•Align compensation with NexGen’s corporate strategy and financial interests as well as the long-term
interests of NexGen Shareholders.

•Compensation should be fair and reasonable to Shareholders and be set with reference to the local market
and similar positions in comparable companies.

The Company has recently been increasing the
size and composition of its senior management team to reflect the Company’s focus on development activities. It is continually assessing
its compensation philosophy and practices as the Company advances through development and, with the assistance of Mercer, the Compensation
Committee has developed a compensation road map for that purpose.

Executive Compensation Peer Group and Benchmarking

The Compensation Committee uses a variety
of data sources, including guidance from independent compensation advisors when retained from time to time, formally determined executive
compensation peer group, published compensation surveys, and other market data to identify peer groups for salary comparisons. In collaboration
with Mercer, the Compensation Committee has updated NexGen’s peer group to better reflect its current development, pre-operational
stage and the associated workstreams and the market where NexGen competes for skilled executive talent. Based on recommendations from
Mercer, this peer group better aligns with NexGen's latest market capitalization and industry focus.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 58
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

The executive compensation peer group selection
was based on the following:

•Companies within the same industry segment as NexGen.

•Companies with a similar business strategy and scope of operations to NexGen.

•Companies based and primarily operating within North America.

The resulting peer group reflects a mix of
both development-stage and production-stage mining companies, to gain a balanced perspective on compensation approaches and further layout
NexGen’s compensation roadmap.

The table below summarizes the 2023 executive
compensation peer group:

 
 Executive Compensation Peer Group
 
 Alamos Gold Inc
 Lundin Gold Limited
 
 Cameco Company
 Mag Silver Corp
 
 Denison Mines Corp
 NovaGold Resources
 
 Capstone Copper Corp
 Osisko Mining Inc.
 
 Energy Fuels Inc
 Seabridge Gold Inc.
 
 Eldorado Gold Corporation
 Patriot Battery Metals Inc.
 
 Ero Copper Corp.
 Seabridge Gold Inc.
 
 Filo Corp
 Standard Lithium Ltd
 
 Fission Uranium Corp.
 Uranium Energy Corp.
 
 Ivanhoe Mines Limited
 Torex Gold Resources Inc.
 
 Lithium Americas Corp
 
 
NexGen provides a market competitive base
salary and incentive opportunity that targets within a competitive range of market median with the ability to achieve higher compensation
in the case of superior performance. NexGen’s compensation programs meet the objective of attracting, retaining and motivating key
talent in a highly competitive market while aligning the goals and objectives of management with the interests of the shareholders.

Independent Compensation Consultant

In 2023, Mercer, an independent compensation consultant,
performed an in-depth analysis of the Company’s compensation philosophy; and provided a detailed review of executive officer and
director compensation which included an updated executive compensation peer group (refer above) and a compensation road map that is in
line with Company’s pre-operational stage and long-term development.

A summary of fees paid to the compensation consultants
for the last two fiscal years are outlined in the following table:

 
 Year
 Consultant
 Executive Compensation Related Fees
 All Other Fees
 
 2023
 Mercer
 $94,973
 Nil
 
 2022
 Global Governance Advisors
 $10,000
 Nil
 
Under the engagement agreement with the Company’s
independent compensation advisor, the Compensation Committee Chair approves all work plans and works with management as needed to complete
assignments. Reports are delivered directly to the Compensation Committee Chair, with distribution to management as required.

The Compensation Committee’s emphasis is
on oversight, discretion and responsibility.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 59
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

In 2024, the Board is expected to approve the adoption
of the 2024 LTI Plan to provide the Company with flexibility to grant various types of awards and to align the interests of participants
with the interests of Shareholders, while allowing NexGen to remain competitive in the marketplace. No awards have been granted under
the 2024 LTI Plan.

 

During the financial year ended December 31, 2023,
compensation of the Company’s executive officers consisted of a base salary, an annual STI award in the form of a discretionary
performance bonus and/or special bonus, a cash based long-term incentive award, and stock options, all of which is intended to be competitive
in the aggregate while delivering an appropriate balance between annual compensation (base salary and cash bonuses) and long-term compensation
(stock options).

 

 
 Compensation Element
 Form
 Purpose of Element
 Determination
 
 Base Salary
 Cash
 Forms a baseline level of compensation for role fulfillment commensurate with the experience, skills, and market demand for the executive officer role and/or incumbent.
 Salaries are determined from analysis of similar positions within similar companies, as benchmarked against various independent information sources. Individual experience, individual performance, level of responsibility and the emphasis on other compensation program elements are also considered when setting salary levels. 
 
 Short-Term Incentive Award (STI)
 Cash
 To recognize short-term (typically annual) efforts and milestone achievements that are designed to link the achievement of personal and annual performance objectives to the Company’s business strategy and to the enhancement of Shareholder value.
 STI opportunity for each executive officer is set based both with reference to competitive market practice, the seniority of the executive officer’s position and his or her industry experience. Actual bonus payments range from 0% - 100% of the target bonus opportunity, based upon the achievement of corporate and individual performance targets, with the opportunity to be awarded more based on extraordinary achievements not to exceed 200% excluding certain Special Bonus amounts. Each executive officer’s annual performance is measured against corporate and individual performance objectives, the weighting of each being dependent upon his or her role in the organization and relative influence over corporate performance objectives. 
 
 Long-Term Incentive Award 
 
 Stock Options & Cash
 
 
 Designed to motivate executive officers and employees
 to create and grow sustainable Shareholder total return over medium- to long-term performance periods and to facilitate key employee retention.
 
 
 Option award levels are granted at such levels that
 total compensation can achieve above-market levels provided that the Company’s share price achieves superior returns relative to
 the grant price over a 5-year period. The Board sets the term and vesting of options under the Option Plan.
 Cash award levels are payable on the achievement of
 significant long-term milestones that are determined to be in line with the Company’s strategic outlook and long-term Shareholder
 interests.
 
 Benefits and Perquisites
 Indirect cash through broad-based plan
 Provided to attract and retain the key talent required to manage the organization but are not intended to make-up a significant portion of an executive officer’s total compensation.
 Benefits are provided on a broad basis to the Company’s executive officers and other eligible employees with limited perquisites to remain market competitive with the peer group. A specific perquisite will only be provided when the perquisite provides competitive value and promotes retention of key executive officers.
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 60
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Base Salaries

In establishing base salaries, the Compensation
Committee considered factors such as experience, changes to roles and responsibilities, corporate growth, length of service, and compensation
compared to other employment opportunities for executive officers. Base salaries are also intended to be internally equitable. Salaries
are reviewed annually by the Board based on recommendations of the Compensation Committee.

Short-Term Incentive Awards

STI awards are based on the achievement of pre-determined,
measurable corporate and/or individual performance objectives. Individual performance is measured not just on deliverables achieved but
how employees effectively perform in their roles. During the financial year ended December 31, 2023, STI awards were based on performance
over the year on set objectives approved by the Board (a “Performance Bonus”) and/or based on the achievement of a
particular and extraordinary corporate transaction, financing or other milestones (a “Special Bonus”). In particular,
two special bonuses were paid to certain NEOs in the financial year ended December 31, 2023. One such special bonus, which the Board
granted in 2019 and was earned in 2023, was designed specifically to recognize and reward the successful negotiation and signing of the
four Indigenous Benefits Agreement (“IBA”), a significant milestone achievement for the Company. The payout under these
special incentives reflects the Company’s commitment to rewarding efforts that significantly advance NexGen’s strategic goals
and objectives, and materially advance the Provincial and Federal approvals for the Rook I Project and contribute to NexGen’s long-term
success.

A maximum Performance Bonus was determined for
each executive officer as a percentage of salary. The maximum performance bonus for 2023 was capped at 200% of the respective executive
officer’s target STI excluding certain Special Bonus amounts. The target STI as a percentage of base salary for the CEO is 100%
and for all other executive officers, ranges between 30-75%, with the opportunity to be awarded more based on extraordinary achievements.
The key performance indicators and maximum bonus percentage are determined by the Compensation Committee in collaboration with the CEO
and HR annually for the ensuing financial year and recommended to the Board for approval, on an individual basis for each executive officer.

The Company-wide key performance metrics for
2023 are set out below under the “2023 NexGen Performance Scorecard” section and the Company expects to maintain similar areas
of focus for such metrics in 2024.

Long-Term Incentive Awards

Incentive Stock Options

The Board and Compensation Committee believe
that the Company’s long-term success has been significantly influenced by its historical practice of granting only stock option
awards as equity incentives. However, following shareholder engagement by management and the Board, and based
on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board is expected to approve the adoption of the 2024 LTI Plan to provide flexibility
to grant various types of awards and to align the interests of participants with the interests of Shareholders, while allowing NexGen
to remain competitive in the marketplace. No awards
have been granted under the 2024 LTI Plan.

Stock options, which are inherently at-risk
compensation, provide alignment between long-term share price performance and remuneration for the NexGen team. Given the Company’s
development stage and not yet currently generating net cash flows through operations, option awards have been preferred to other forms
of long-term incentive awards as they provide significant benefits to the Company and its shareholders and preserve cash resources compared
to other forms of equity incentivization that are cash-settled, thereby reducing funds available for Project development execution.

Mercer,
the Company’s compensation advisor, is working closely with the Compensation Committee to further refine the Company’s compensation
programs, ensuring they align with the Company’s ongoing evolution and contribute to its sustained, demonstrated success. The Compensation
Committee is working with Mercer and is expected to adopt the 2024 LTI Plan to provide the Company with
flexibility to grant various types of awards and to align the interests of participants with those of the Shareholders, while allowing
NexGen to remain competitive in the marketplace.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 61
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Stock options are granted on a discretionary
basis, based on the Board and the Compensation Committee’s assessment of each individual’s performance. Generally, the number
of stock options granted to any executive officer is a function of their contribution and achievements to the business and affairs of
the Company, the level of authority and responsibility of the executive officer, the number of stock options the Company has already granted
to the executive officer, and such other factors that the Compensation Committee may consider relevant.

Stock options are governed by the Option Plan
and awards are generally considered and made semi-annually following the Company’s annual Shareholder meeting and at fiscal year-end.
Existing stock options have a five-year term and are exercisable at the price determined by the Board (which is the market price of the
Company’s common shares on the day prior to grant), subject to applicable regulatory requirements at the time of grant.

NexGen’s option awards have a five-year
term and two-year vesting period, enhancing the Company’s ability to retain key employees, which is especially important during
the development stage.

It’s important to note that all options
granted in the Company’s history have always been issued at a higher price than the previous price of equity raised, and historically
only exercised by executives in the 60th (final) month prior to expiry. In many instances the proceeds from these option exercises
have funded the tax liabilities and exercise price associated with the majority of remaining proceeds reinvested by the Executives into
equity. For example, the Chief Executive Officer has increased his equity position through this mechanism by a factor of 2.8x since his
initial equity purchase, thereby completely aligning performance with shareholder returns and incentivizing the creation of long-term
shareholder value.

Stock option value is determined by the Black-Scholes
model, of which a significant input is the share price of the Company at stock option grant date. Due to the Company’s share price
outperformance, the value of stock options granted rises correspondingly with the share price even though the number of stock options
and actual value of stock options realized may vary from the Black Scholes model.

Long-Term Retention Incentive Program

In 2020 NexGen introduced a Long-Term Retention
Cash Based Incentive program. The program was put in place to retain and incentivize, and reward select executives and technical
talent critical to the achievement of defined and material long-term milestones in line with the Company’s strategic outlook and
long-term shareholder interests. The rewards are payable on the achievement of specific milestones. To date, no payments have been made
pursuant to this long-term incentive. In addition, the Board is expected to approve the adoption of the 2024 LTI Plan. No awards have been granted
under the 2024 LTI Plan.

2023 NEXGEN PERFOMANCE SCORECARD

NexGen uses a formalized scorecard methodology
for setting Company objectives and measuring performance to assess short-term incentives. The scorecard process establishes objectives
at the beginning of each year that span across the various focus areas of the Company, allowing alignment towards broad objectives that
span multiple years and adherence to NexGen’s vision and values. The scorecard objectives are recommended annually by management
and reviewed by the Compensation Committee and approved by the Board.

Objectives in 2023 were established within the
following focus areas: health and safety, community, permitting, project development, finance, culture/people, and share price appreciation.
2023 was a year of significant achievement for NexGen in all areas of the organization.

Market Performance Overview

In 2023, NexGen achieved a 55% year-on-year increase
in its share price, increasing from $5.99 on December 31st, 2022, to $9.27 on December 31st, 2023. This growth is
particularly noteworthy considering NexGen outperformed the Global X uranium index (38%) and the S&P/TSX Global Mining Index (4%).
Additionally, NexGen experienced a significant boost in its global average daily traded value in the same period, with a year-over-year
increase of ~33% to an average of ~US$24M traded per day. This increase is primarily driven by an ~50% increase in average daily trading
volume on the NYSE.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 62
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

2023 Company Objectives and Achievements

 
 Permitting
 
 • Permitting
 of 2023 Site Program works.
 • Completion
 of Provincial EA Technical Review and submission of the Final Provincial EIS.
 • Receipt
 of Provincial EA approval on November 8, 2023.
 • Submission
 and subsequent acceptance of Federal Licence application.
 • 2022
 Sustainability Report incorporating all aspects of GRI compliance.
 
 Benefit Agreements and Community Engagement
 
 • MN-S
 IBA successfully signed on the NexGen basis and approach, resulting in successful implementation of all four benefit agreements.
 • Proactive
 engagement and approach to align critical path with Government and Project.
 • Full
 LPA support for the Project and exploration programs.
 • Training
 and Certification Programs (251 students) reaching unprecedented participation levels in the LPA.
 • Community
 Information Sessions defining a new standard of engagement with all communities.
 • Successful
 implementation of current Benefit Agreements.
 • LPA
 contracting and employment targets achieved.
 
 Exploration
 
 • NexGen’s
 exploration drill program systematically targeted prospective corridors farther from Arrow than in seasons past and developed a strong
 understanding of corridors that had not been previously explored.
 • Completing
 22,114 metres out of a planned 22,500 metres.
 • Undertook
 an extensive geophysical program using modern techniques to unlock significant potential across the SW1, SW2, and SW3 properties.
 
 Project Development
 
 • Advancement
 of Front-End Engineering Design (“FEED”) stage deliverables, and Detailed Engineering critical path activities which
 include procurement of long-lead equipment and contracts.
 • Fostered
 relationships with key vendors and Community business development leaders to ensure Project Readiness.
 • Safely
 executed the 2023 Site Program and expanded Summer Student Program.
 
 Finance & IT 
 
 • Expressions
 of interest totalling over US$1 billion in Project financing debt.
 • ~C$182
 million raised through the At-the-Market program to strategic investors.
 • Strategic
 convertible debenture placement of US$110 million.
 • Conversion
 of US$15 million convertible debenture and placement of C$160 million block trade.
 • Successful
 placement of insurance policies, including 2023 Site Program coverage.
 • Advanced
 cybersecurity and IT infrastructure in alignment with National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Cybersecurity framework.
 
 Culture and People
 
 • Strategic
 hires for succession and growth while maintaining fit-for-purpose resourcing balance.
 • Implementation
 of Company-wide employee intranet.
 • Embedded
 a more robust candidate selection process.
 
 Health & Safety
 
 • Successful
 roll-out of Phase I Health, Safety, Environment, Quality software modules.
 • Strengthened
 Field Level Hazard Assessment protocols at Rook I.
 • Implemented
 real-time GPS tracking on entire NexGen vehicle fleet.
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 63
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

CEO Performance

Throughout 2023, the CEO’s Individual Performance
successfully aligned with the strategic direction set by the Board and served as the foundation for the Company’s strong performance
in a dynamic environment. The Company benefited greatly from the CEO’s strategic leadership, leveraging his extensive industry experience,
and his ability to navigate the complexities of responsible growth for successful and optimal outcomes across the organization.

 
 Strategic Partnerships
 
 • Led
 negotiations for historic and Industry Leading Benefit Agreement with Metis Nation to secure 100% Indigenous support, establishing entirely
 new standard and template for responsible resource development globally.
 • Drove
 vigorous agenda between NexGen and key Provincial and Federal government stakeholders to advance unmatched timelines for the Provincial
 approval of NexGen’s Environmental Assessment for the Rook I Project.
 • Executed
 the highest volume of shareholder meetings in the Company’s history to cement global support for the development of the Rook I Project.
 
 Commercial
 
 • Negotiated
 successful US $110 million convertible debenture with strategic investors including the signing of Investor Rights Agreements.
 • Strategically
 sold $182 million of equity using at-the-market equity program in a unique way utilizing pre-organized block trades, at very low discount
 to spot market and less cost than common in the market, to targeted investors to strengthen balance sheet and cash position as well as
 updated ATM program to $500 million.
 • Oversaw
 expressions of interest of over USD $1 billion relating to Rook I Project enhancing the financing opportunities.
 
 Sustainability
 
 • Set
 the vision for unprecedented positive community impact, delivering unique and impactful programs for generational change. 
 • Built
 significant economic capacity through the initiation of Indigenous owned business creation.
 • Company
 culture and behaviour for high-level performance through alignment of resources; talent succession; adherence to process with emphasis
 on quality and managing well-being.
 • Leads
 by example, diligently upholding the Company’s mission, vision and values.
 
2023 Assessment of Objectives

During the financial year ended December 31,
2023, the Chair of the Compensation Committee met with the Chief Executive Officer periodically to discuss Company goals and performance
and to discuss the performance of executive officers individually. The Compensation Committee works in conjunction with the Chief Executive
Officer to set compensation, including proposed salary adjustments, performance and/or special bonuses and stock option awards for executive
officers, excluding for that of the CEO himself.

The Compensation Committee made recommendations
relating to the compensation of executive officers to the Board. Based on these recommendations,
the Board made decisions concerning the nature and scope of the compensation to be paid to executive officers. The Compensation Committee
based its recommendations to the Board on its compensation philosophy and the Compensation Committee’s assessment of corporate and
individual performance, recruiting and retention needs. The Board used judgement with the 2023 Corporate Scorecard and the corporate rating
was reduced as not all objectives were fully completed.

In early 2024, the Board, based on the recommendation
of the Compensation Committee will establish a set of criteria and objectives which will be the basis for the 2024 performance rewards.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 64
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

CEO COMPENSATION SUMMARY

Total Market Capitalization Return vs. Named Executive
Pay

Executive pay is in line and fit-for-purpose
with the performance of NexGen’s market capitalization, the value of the Company’s equity which helps align management interests
with that of shareholders. Over four of the past five years, executive pay has moved in the same direction as the value of the Company’s
market capitalization. In addition, for the past 5 years,
the Company’s indexed market capitalization return has significantly outperformed the S&P/TSX Composite Total Return Index.

 

 

As stated under the section “Compensation Highlights”,
NexGen’s pay programs have proven to be effective and demonstrate a strong correlation between shareholder returns and CEO returns
against target compensation awarded.

 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 65
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

2023 Compensation Mix

In 2023, the Company’s executive compensation
program emphasized at risk performance-based compensation. For the CEO, 94% of the overall compensation award is performance based and
at risk, with 79% of his total compensation in the form of stock options linked to long-term share price performance and 15% in the form
of short-term bonuses dependent on meeting predetermined and significant objectives. For the remaining executives, on average, 86% of
their overall compensation is performance based and at risk, with 72% of their total compensation in the form of stock options linked
to long-term share performance and 14% in the form of short-term bonuses dependent on meeting predetermined objectives. The pie charts
below illustrate the Executive compensation mix in 2023.

 

CEO Stock Option Overview

To align the CEO’s compensation with the
Company performance and shareholder value creation, 79% of the CEO’s overall compensation is unrealized and at risk in the form
of stock options which are 5-year terms and historically only exercised if the market share price is above the exercise price in the 60th
month following the grant.

The Board and the Compensation Committee thoroughly
reviewed all incentives including equity-based incentives for the NexGen team and determined that the Company’s equity incentive
program, which consists entirely of stock option awards, has been a major factor in the Company’s success to date and is appropriate
for the unique stage of development and associated workstreams. Not only do stock options, which are at risk compensation, provide alignment
between long-term share price performance and remuneration for executive officers, they provide significant other benefits to NexGen as
a development company compared to other forms of equity incentives. Importantly, stock option awards preserve cash resources providing
the Company greater flexibility in pursuing its successful strategy to developing the Rook I Project, and provide other significant benefits
to the Company and its shareholders compared to certain other forms of awards.

However,
to ensure the Company’s compensation programs align with the evolution of the Company and support its continued demonstrated success,
Mercer, the Company’s compensation advisor, is working closely with the Compensation Committee to review the Company’s overall
compensation arrangements. The Compensation Committee is working with Mercer and is expected to adopt the 2024 LTI Plan to provide
the Company with flexibility to grant various types of awards and to align the interests of participants with the interests of Shareholders,
while allowing NexGen to remain competitive in the marketplace.

NexGen’s stock option awards have a five-year
term and two-year vesting period, enhancing the Company’s ability to retain key employees, which is especially important during
the development stage (permitting, engineering, procurement, financing, exploration and community engagement).

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 66
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

It’s important to note that all options
granted in the Company’s history have always been issued at a higher price than the previous price of equity raised, and only exercised
by Executives in the 60th (final) month prior to expiry. In many instances the proceeds from these option exercises have funded
the tax liabilities and exercise price associated, with the majority of remaining proceeds reinvested by the Executives into equity. For
example, the Chief Executive Officer has increased his equity position through this mechanism by a factor of 2.8x since his initial equity
purchase, thereby completely aligning performance with long-term shareholder returns.

The Company has made significant progress in
meeting the various goals in its carefully considered strategy to develop the Rook I Project, which has driven the Company’s solid
stock price performance since inception. Accordingly, to ensure that such goals are met, the Company also offers (in addition to the 2024
LTI Plan) cash based STI and long-term incentive awards which pay out only if specific and materials goals closely tied to the strategic
plan have been met by the employee.

The stock option grants are valued using the
Black-Scholes valuation method. While the value of the options granted is included in overall compensation, it is noted that this represents
an unrealized value in the year of grant and is based on the Black-Scholes valuation method. The current year stock option grants
for the CEO had an unrealized calculated Black-Scholes value of $10.9 million compared to an intrinsic value on December 31, 2023, of
$3.4 million. The intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the December 31, 2023, closing price of the common shares on
the TSX of $9.27 and the option exercise price, multiplied by the number of options granted during the year. Again, these are also only
realizable if the market share price is above the exercise price after 5-years from the grant date based on historical exercise practices.

The below chart demonstrates when exercising
stock options, the CEO retains shares after tax considerations and exercise price from the exercise as opposed to realizing all of the
immediately available cash proceeds, he is entitled to under the Option Plan. This further aligns his realized compensation with the Company’s
long-term performance and demonstrates his commitment to the Company’s future performance.

 

Notes:

(1)Realized value on exercise of options - this value is calculated
by multiplying the difference between the share price on exercise date and option exercise price, by the number of options exercised.
A portion of this value is Cash Realized on Exercise of which some is disposed of to finance the exercise price and satisfy tax obligations,
while the remaining value is retained in shares (Held in Shares).

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 67
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

CEO Share Ownership and Holdings

To further align the CEO’s investment with
the Company, the CEO over the last 3 years has significantly increased his shareholding within the Company. Within the industry standard,
when calculating share ownership, companies include other equity items including certain components of preferred and restricted share
units. In the below table, NexGen’s CEO holds a multiple of 57 times his base salary in common shares, substantially higher when
compared to the industry advised target of 3-5 times base salary.

 

Notes:

(1)Share Value is calculated based on the December 31, 2021, 2022 and 2023 closing price of the common shares
on the TSX of $5.54, $5.99, and $9.27 respectively, multiplied by the number of shares held by the CEO for each respective year.

(2)Option Value is the number of the CEO’s total in-the-money unexercised options outstanding on December
31, 2021, 2022, and 2023 multiplied by the difference between the December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023 closing price of $5.54, $5.99, and
$9.27, respectively, and the exercise price of the respective options.

(3)Multiple of Base Salary to Share Value - this value is calculated based on Share Value as a multiple of
the CEO’s base salary for each respective year.

(4)Multiple of Base Salary to Share Value and Option Value - this value is calculated based on Share Value
plus Option Value, as a multiple of the CEO’s base salary for each respective year.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 68
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Summary Compensation Table

For the financial year ended December 31, 2023,
the Company’s six Named Executive Officers as defined under Form 51-102F6 - Statement of Executive Compensation were: Leigh
Curyer, Travis McPherson, Monica Kras, Luke Moger, Benjamin Salter, and Harpreet Dhaliwal (collectively, the “Executives”).

The following table sets forth the compensation
paid to each of the Executives for each of the Company’s three most recently completed financial years (2021, 2022, and 2023).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Name and principal position
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Salary
 ($)
 
 
 
 
 Share- based awards
 ($)
 
 
 
 
 Option-
based awards
 ($) (1)
 
 Non-equity incentive
 plan compensation 
 ($)
 
 
 
 
 
 Pension value
 ($)
 
 
 
 
 
 All other compensation
 ($) (4)
 
 
 
 
 
 Total compensation
 ($)
 
 
 Annual incentive

 plans
 ($) (2)
 
 Long-term incentive plans
 ($) (3)
 
 
 Leigh Curyer 
 President, Chief Executive Officer & Director (5)
 2023
 847,600
 Nil
 10,940,000
 2,007,457
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 13,795,057
 
 2022
 815,000
 Nil
 3,790,000
 717,200
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 5,322,200
 
 2021
 780,000
 Nil
 17,540,000
 1,560,000
 Nil
 Nil
 106,454
 19,986,454
 
 
 Travis McPherson
 Chief Commercial Officer
 2023
 475,000
 Nil
 3,715,000
 812,500
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 5,002,500
 
 2022
 415,000
 Nil
 2,267,000
 185,713
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,867,713
 
 2021
 375,000
 Nil
 3,784,000
 375,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 4,534,000
 
 
 Monica Kras
 Vice President, Corporate Development (9)
 2023
 355,285
 Nil
 2,445,000
 413,987
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 3,214,272
 
 2022
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil 
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 2021
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 
 Luke Moger
 Vice President, Permitting & Licensing (6)
 2023
 326,374
 Nil
 1,272,500
 162,500
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 1,761,374
 
 2022
 290,916
 Nil
 966,500
 136,300
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 1,393,716
 
 2021
 160,417
 Nil
 1,308,500
 170,500
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 1,639,417
 
 
 Benjamin Salter
 Chief Financial Officer (7)
 2023
 287,134
 Nil
 899,000
 145,180
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 1,331,314
 
 2022
 220,000
 Nil
 524,250
 78,960
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 823,210
 
 2021
 92,077
 Nil
 566,000
 30,819
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 688,896
 
 
 Harpreet Dhaliwal
 Chief Financial Officer (8)
 2023
 8,265
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 8,265
 
 2022
 372,309
 Nil
 365,000
 120,750
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 858,059
 
 2021
 281,250
 Nil
 2,088,000
 172,500
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,541,750
 
Notes:

(1)Option-based compensation is valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model was selected
as it is widely used in estimating option-based compensation values by Canadian public companies. The Black-Scholes model resulted in
a value of an option on each of the following dates as follows:

December 11, 2023 - $5.09, August 22,
2023 - $3.90, December 18, 2022 - $3.06, August 17, 2022 - $2.92, December 14, 2021 - $2.83; June 10, 2021 - $2.97; April 1, 2021 - $2.32.

These stock options have not been, and
may never be, exercised and actual gains, if any, on exercise will depend on the value of the common shares on the date of exercise.

(2)Includes bonus amounts paid to Executives by the
end of each financial year, comprising a Performance Bonus and/or Special Bonus. 

(3)The Company has a long-term incentive retention program to retain and award executive officers. For the
financial year referenced, milestones are still in progress and not yet payable.

(4)All other compensation for Mr. Curyer primarily consisted of reimbursements relating to travel.

(5)Mr. Curyer does not receive any remuneration in his role as a director of NexGen.

(6)Mr. Moger was previously engaged as a consultant
and was hired as a salaried employee on June 1, 2021. 

(7)Mr. Salter was appointed Chief Financial Officer on September 1, 2023. Prior to such date, Mr. Salter
was the Vice-President, Finance for the Company.

(8)Ms. Dhaliwal served as Chief Financial Officer from April 1, 2021, to September 1, 2023. Her compensation
for 2022 and 2023 reflects reduced hours worked as a result of a maternity arrangement.

(9)Ms. Kras had 300,000 stock options awarded on December 18, 2022, conditional upon the commencement of
her employment on January 5, 2023.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 69
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Incentive Plan Awards

Outstanding Share-Based Awards and Option-Based Awards

The following table sets forth all share-based
and option-based awards outstanding on December 31, 2023, for each of the Executives. All option-based awards vest one-third at the grant
date, and in one-third increments for the following two years annually, based on the anniversary of the date of grant and have five (5)
year terms.

 
 
 Name
 
 Option-based Awards
 Share-based Awards
 
 
 Number of securities underlying
 unexercised options
 (#)
 
 Option exercise price
 ($)
 
 Option expiration
 date
 
 Value of unexercised
 in-the-money options
 ($) (1)
 
 Number of shares or units of shares
 that have not vested
 (#)
 
 Market or payout
 value of share- based awards that have not vested
 ($)
 
 Leigh Curyer
 750,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 5,512,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,500,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 11,520,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,100,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 8,217,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 2,000,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 12,060,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 4,000,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 13,720,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 2,000,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 7,660,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,000,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 3,700,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,500,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 3,420,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 1,000,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Travis McPherson
 350,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 2,572,500 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 500,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 3,840,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 550,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 4,108,500 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 450,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 2,713,500 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 750,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 2,572,500 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 550,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 2,106,500 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 792,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 550,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 2,035,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 684,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 500,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 - 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Monica Kras
 300,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 1,110,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 - 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Luke Moger
 200,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,494,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 857,500 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 766,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 125,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 495,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 740,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 - 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 
 Benjamin Salter
 
 200,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 766,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 75,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 297,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 370,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 228,000 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 - 
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Harpreet Dhaliwal (2)
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
 

Note:

(1)The value of unexercised in-the-money options is calculated by multiplying the difference
between the December 31, 2023, closing price of the common shares on the TSX of $9.27 and the option exercise price, by the number of
outstanding options. These stock options have not been, and may never be, exercised and actual gains, if any, on exercise will depend
on the value of the common shares on the date of exercise.

(2)Ms. Dhaliwal served as Chief Financial Officer from April 1, 2021, to September 1, 2023.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 70
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Incentive Plan Awards -
Value Vested or Earned During the Year

During the financial year ended December 31,
2023, the following incentive plan awards vested or were earned for the Executives:

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Name
 
 Option-based awards - Value
 vested during the year (1)
 ($)
 
 Shared-based awards - Value vested
 during the year
 ($)
 
 Non-equity
 incentive plan compensation - Value earned during the year
 ($)
 
 Leigh Curyer
 10,560,000
 Nil
 2,007,457
 
 Travis McPherson
 3,671,667
 Nil
 812,500
 
 Monica Kras 
 742,000
 Nil
 413,987
 
 Benjamin Salter
 1,081,333
 Nil
 145,180
 
 Luke Moger
 1,373,500
 Nil
 162,500
 
 Harpreet Dhaliwal (2)
 1,141,333
 Nil
 Nil
 
Notes:

(1)The aggregate dollar value that would have been realized if the options under the option-based award had been exercised on the vesting
date.

(2)Ms. Dhaliwal served as Chief Financial Officer from April 1, 2021, to September 1, 2023.

Termination and Change of Control Benefits

The Executive Employment Agreements establish
base compensation comprised of base salary and eligibility for an annual performance-based cash short-term incentive award. Executives
are also eligible to participate in the Company’s Stock Option Plan and long-term retention incentive program in the form of cash
payments based off milestone achievements, at the discretion of the Board. The Executive Employment Agreements are effective until such
time as they are terminated in accordance with their terms.

The Executive Employment Agreements also provide
for termination payments in the event that (i) the Executive’s employment is terminated
without cause (including constructive dismissal), or (ii) within 12 months of a “change of control”, the Executive is terminated
without cause, resigns, or resigns with good reason.

In each case, the terminated Executive is entitled
to (i) reimbursement of any outstanding expenses, (ii) accrued annual salary and vacation pay to the date of termination, (iii) any Annual
Bonus earned but not paid at the date of termination, and (iv) a termination payment equal to the product by multiplying: (a) the sum
of (1) his or her annual base salary; and (2) his or her highest bonus (including both Performance Bonuses and Special Bonuses) paid or
payable in the preceding three years, in each case, calculated on a monthly basis, by (b) a period of between six (6) and 36 months, with
longer periods being applicable only in the case of a change of control (the “Severance Period”). Those Executives
eligible for the long-term retention incentive award will also be payable in the event of a change of control. The Executive is also entitled
to the continuation of benefits during the Severance Period, or in the event the Company is unable to continue such benefits, payment
in lieu equal to the cost of such benefits to the Company.

All outstanding options held by the terminated
Executive would also vest immediately and continue to be exercisable until the earlier of the expiry of their term or such period imposed
by an applicable regulatory body.

The estimated incremental payments (excluding
the Final Wages and payment in lieu of the cost of benefits) payable by the Company to each Executive upon termination without cause or
related to a change of control, assuming the triggering event occurred on December 31, 2023, are as follows.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 71
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 
 Name
 Triggering Event
 Estimated Incremental Payment ($)
 
 
 Leigh Curyer (1)
 President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 4,282,586
 13,565,171
 
 
 Travis McPherson (2)
 Chief Commercial Officer
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 1,287,500
 4,475,000
 
 
 Monica Kras (3,6)
 Vice-President, Corporate Development
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 170,727
 503,649
 
 
 Luke Moger (4,6)
 Vice-President, Permitting & Licensing
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 162,500
 1,137,500
 
 Benjamin Salter (5,6)
Chief Financial Officer
 
 Termination Without Cause
 Change of Control
 
 350,000
 472,770
 
Notes:

(1)In addition, Mr. Curyer
holds an aggregate of 2,083,333 unvested stock options. Those options, having an aggregate in-the-money value of $3,843,329 on December
31, 2023, would have vested and become exercisable had a Change of Control occurred. Mr. Curyer’s Change of Control benefit includes
the long-term incentive retention incentive payable for specific long-term milestones achieved over a stipulated sliding scale timeline.

(2)In addition, Mr. McPherson
holds an aggregate of 783,333 unvested stock options. Those options, having an aggregate in-the-money value of $1,398,331 on December
31, 2023, would have vested and become exercisable had a Change of Control occurred. Mr. McPherson’s Change of Control benefit includes
a long-term incentive retention incentive payable for specific long-term milestones achieved over a stipulated sliding scale timeline.

(3)In addition, Ms. Kras
holds an aggregate of 300,000 unvested stock options. Those options, having an aggregate in-the-money value of $370,000 on December 31,
2023, would have vested and become exercisable had a Change of Control occurred.

(4)In addition, Mr. Moger
holds an aggregate of 275,000 unvested stock options. Those options, having an aggregate in-the-money value of $411,667 on December 31,
2023, would have vested and become exercisable had a Change of Control occurred. Mr. Moger’s Change of Control benefit includes
a long-term incentive retention incentive payable for specific long-term milestones achieved over a stipulated sliding scale timeline.

(5)In addition, Mr. Salter
holds an aggregate of 191,667 unvested stock options. Those options, having an aggregate in-the-money value of $374,333 on December 31,
2023, would have vested and become exercisable had a Change of Control occurred.

(6)Ms. Kras, Mr. Moger and
Mr. Salter’s change of control and termination payments are calculated using the preceding year's bonus rather than the highest
bonus of the three preceding years per their employment contracts.

There
are no significant conditions or obligations that apply to receiving any of the above benefits or payments, such as the requirement for
the Executive to enter into a non-compete, non-solicitation, non-disparagement or confidentiality agreement.

Director Compensation

The following section pertains to the compensation
arrangements the Company had with each non-executive director, namely Christopher McFadden, Richard Patricio, Warren Gilman, Trevor Thiele,
Sybil Veenman, Karri Howlett, Brad Wall, Don Roberts, and Ivan Mullany during the year ended December 31, 2023. Director fees were comprised
of an annual retainer for serving on the Board and Board committees. Executives do not receive additional compensation for serving as
directors. Leigh Curyer is a director but also an Executive and receives no additional compensation for his role as a director.

 
 Board Position
 Annualized Retainer
($)
 
 Board Chair Retainer
 90,000
 
 Board Member Retainer
 70,000
 
 Audit Committee Chair
 20,000
 
 Compensation Committee Chair
 20,000
 
 Sustainability Committee Chair
 12,000
 
 Committee Member
 5,000(1)
 

(1)The annualized retainer for committee members is $5,000 per committee.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 72
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

In addition to the annualized fees disclosed
in the table above, each non-Executive director was granted Options, under the Option Plan.

The stock option grants are valued using the Black-Scholes
valuation method. While the value of the options granted is included in overall compensation, it is noted that this represents an unrealized
value in the year of grant and is based on the Black-Scholes valuation method. The following table sets forth the 2023 unrealized stock
option grant value calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation method and the intrinsic options values as of December 31, 2023. The intrinsic
value is calculated as the difference between the December 31, 2023, closing price of the common shares on the TSX of $9.27 and the option
exercise price, multiplied by the number of options granted during the year.

 
 Name
 
 Intrinsic Option Value (1)
 ($)
 
 Black-Scholes Option value (2)
 ($)
 
 Christopher McFadden
 684,000
 2,188,000
 
 Richard Patricio
 1,026,000
 2,773,000
 
 Trevor Thiele
 1,026,000
 2,773,000
 
 Warren Gilman
 684,000
 2,188,000
 
 Sybil Veenman 
 684,000
 2,188,000
 
 Karri Howlett 
 684,000
 2,188,000
 
 Brad Wall
 Nil
 1,018,000
 
 Don J. Roberts
 Nil
 1,018,000
 
 Ivan Mullany
 816,000
 2,098,000
 
 

Note:

(1)The intrinsic value is
calculated as the difference between the December 31, 2023, closing price of the common shares on the TSX of $9.27 and exercise price
of the respective options, multiplied by the number of options granted during the year. These stock options have not been, and may never
be, exercised and actual gains, if any, on exercise will depend on the value of the common shares on the date of exercise.

(2)Option-based compensation
is valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model was selected as it is widely used in estimating option-based compensation
values by Canadian public companies. The Black-Scholes model resulted in the following unrealized option value on each of the following
dates: January 31, 2023 - $3.60, August 22, 2023 - $3.90; December 11, 2023 - $5.09

The Board also adopted a Director Share Ownership
Guideline, and the details are set out under Share Ownership Guidelines.

The following table sets forth the compensation
provided to the directors of the Company for the financial year ended December 31, 2023.

Compensation paid to Leigh Curyer for the financial
year ended December 31, 2023, is set out above under the heading “Summary Compensation Table”. Mr. Curyer did not receive
any remuneration in his role as a director of the Company.

 
 
 
 Name
 
 Fees earned

 ($)
 
 Share-
based
 awards

 ($)
 
 Option-
based
 awards (1)

 ($) 
 
 Non-equity incentive
 plan
 compensation

 ($)
 
 Pension
 value

 ($)
 
 All other
 compensation

 ($)
 Total ($)
 
 Christopher McFadden
 96,033
 Nil
 2,188,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,284,033
 
 Richard Patricio
 100,000
 Nil
 2,773,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,873,000
 
 Trevor Thiele
 96,033
 Nil
 2,773,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,869,033
 
 Warren Gilman
 78,016
 Nil
 2,188,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,266,016
 
 Sybil Veenman 
 80,000
 Nil
 2,188,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,268,000
 
 Karri Howlett 
 83,984
 Nil
 2,188,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,271,984
 
 Brad Wall (2)
 75,000
 Nil
 1,018,000
 Nil
 Nil
 130,000
 1,223,000
 
 Don J. Roberts
 71,984
 Nil
 1,018,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 1,089,984
 
 Ivan Mullany (3)
 68,134
 Nil
 2,098,000
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 2,171,967
 
 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 73
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Note:

(1)Option-based compensation
is valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model was selected as it is widely used in estimating option-based compensation
values by Canadian public companies. The Black-Scholes model resulted in the following option value on each of the following dates: December
11, 2023 - $5.09; August 22, 2023 - $3.90; January 31, 2023 - $3.60. These stock options have not been, and may never be, exercised and
actual gains, if any, on exercise will depend on the value of the common shares on the date of exercise.

(2)The Company used consulting
services from Flying W Consulting Inc., which is associated with Brad Wall, a director of the Company, in relation to advice on corporate
matters pursuant to a consulting contract and terminable upon three months’ notice. 

(3)Mr. Mullany was appointed
a Director of the Corporation on January 31, 2023.

Incentive Plan Awards

Outstanding Share-Based Awards and Option-Based Awards

The following table sets forth all share-based
and option-based awards outstanding on December 31, 2023, for each of the Company’s directors. All option-based awards vest one-third
at the grant date, and in one-third increments for the following two years annually, based on the anniversary of the date of grant and
have five-year terms.

 

 
 
 Name
 
 Option-based
 Awards
 Share-based Awards
 
 
 
 Number of securities underlying
 unexercised options
 (#)
 
 
 Option exercise price
 ($)
 
 
 Option
 expiration date
 
 
 Value of unexercised in- the-money
 options (1)
 ($)
 
 
 Number of shares
 or units of shares that have not vested
 (#)
 
 
 Market or payout
 value of share- based awards that
 have not vested ($)
 
 
 Christopher McFadden
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 1,837,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 768,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,867,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 1,507,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 1,029,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 1,149,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 925,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 684,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Richard Patricio
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 1,837,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 768,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,867,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 1,507,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 1,029,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 1,149,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 925,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 450,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 1,026,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Trevor Thiele
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 1,837,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 100,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 768,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,867,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 1,507,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 1,029,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 1,149,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 925,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 450,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 1,026,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 74
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

 
 Warren Gilman
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 1,837,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 1,536,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,867,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 1,507,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 1,029,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 1,149,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 925,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 684,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Sybil Veenman
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 1,837,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 1,536,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,867,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 1,507,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 1,029,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 1,149,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 925,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 684,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Karri Howlett
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 1,837,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 1,536,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,867,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 1,507,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 1,029,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 1,149,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 925,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 6.99
 22-Aug-28
 684,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Brad Wall
 500,000
 2.27
 21-Mar-24
 3,500,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.92
 12-Jun-24
 1,837,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 1.59
 24-Dec-24
 1,536,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 1.80
 12-Jun-25
 1,867,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 3.24
 11-Dec-25
 1,507,500
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.84
 10-Jun-26
 1,029,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 300,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 1,149,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 925,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Don J. Roberts
 300,000
 5.44
 14-Dec-26
 1,149,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.31
 17-Aug-27
 990,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 250,000
 5.57
 18-Dec-27
 925,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Ivan Mullany
 300,000
 6.55
 31-Jan-28
 816,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 200,000
 9.33
 11-Dec-28
 -
 Nil
 Nil
 
Note:

(1)The pre-tax
value of unexercised in-the-money options is calculated by multiplying the difference between the closing price of the common shares on
the TSX on December 31, 2023, which was $9.27, and the option exercise price, by the number of outstanding options. These stock options
have not been, and may never be, exercised and actual gains, if any, on exercise will depend on the value of the common shares on the
date of exercise.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 75
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Incentive Plan Awards - Value Vested or Earned
During the Year

During the financial year ended December 31,
2023, the following incentive plan awards vested or were earned for the directors:

 
 
 
 
 Name
 
 Option-based awards -
 Value
 vested during the
 year (1)

 ($)
 
 Shared-based awards
 -
 Value vested during the
 year

 ($)
 
 Non-equity incentive plan
 compensation
 - Value 
earned during the year

 ($)
 
 Christopher McFadden
 1,981,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Richard Patricio
 1,981,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Trevor Thiele
 1,981,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Warren Gilman
 1,981,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Sybil Veenman
 1,981,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Karri Howlett
 1,981,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Brad Wall
 1,981,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Don J. Roberts
 1,972,000
 Nil
 Nil
 
 Ivan Mullany
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 
Note:

(1)The aggregate dollar value that would have been realized if the options under the
option-based award had been exercised on the vesting date.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans

The following table sets out information as of
the end of the Company’s most recently completed financial year, being December 31, 2023, with respect to compensation plans under
which equity securities of the Company are authorized for issuance.

 
 
 
 
 
 Plan Category
 Number of securities 
issuable upon
 exercise of
 outstanding options,
 warrants and rights
 
 Weighted-average
 exercise price of

 outstanding options,
 warrants and rights

 ($)
 
 Number
 of securities
 remaining available for
 future issuance under
 equity compensation

 Plans (2)
 
 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders (1)
 51,565,802
 5.08
 53,502,303
 
 Equity compensation plans not approved by securityholders
 Nil
 n/a
 n/a
 
 Total
 51,565,802
 
 53,502,303
 
Notes:

(1)Refers to stock options to purchase securities
of the Company pursuant to the Option Plan.

(2)The maximum number of shares
that may be reserved for issuance under the Option Plan at any time is 20% of the Company’s issued and outstanding shares, less
any common shares reserved for issuance under any other security-based compensation arrangements.

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 76
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Stock Option History

The following table provides a 3-year history of
the plan maximum, securities available for grant, securities awarded, and burn rates for the Option Plan required under Section 613 of
the TSX Company Manual.

 
 
 2023
 2022
 2021
 
 (#)
 (%)
 (#)
 (%)
 (#)
 (%)
 
 Plan Maximum(1)
 105,068,105
 20%
 96,506,029
 20%
 95,839,647
 20%
 
 Remaining Securities Available for Grant (2)
 53,502,303
 10.18%
 46,867,139
 9.71%
 52,403,153
 10.94%
 
 Outstanding Securities Awarded(3)
 51,565,802
 9.82%
 49,638,890
 10.29%
 43,436,494
 9.06%
 
 Burn Rate (4)
 10,849,062
 2.18%
 9,744,729
 2.03%
 17,400,000
 3.79%
 
Notes:

(1)The maximum number of securities issuable under
the Stock Option Plan, expressed as a percentage of the total number of common shares outstanding as of December 31st of each
year.

(2)The total number of common shares reserved for
issuance pursuant to the Option Plan, less the number of options outstanding, expressed as a percentage of the total number of common
shares outstanding as of December 31st of each year.

(3)The total number of options pursuant to the Option
Plan outstanding expressed as a percentage of the total number of common shares outstanding as of December 31st of each year.

(4)The annual burn rate under the Option Plan was
calculated in accordance with section 613(p) of the TSX Company Manual. 

 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 77
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

INDEBTEDNESS
OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

As at the date of this Circular, no executive
officer, director, employee or former executive officer, director or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is indebted to
the Company, or any of its subsidiaries. No person who is or who was at any time during the most recently completed financial year a director
or executive officer of the Company, any proposed nominee for election as a director of the Company, or any associate of any such director,
executive officer, or proposed nominee is or was at any time since the beginning of the most recently completed financial year indebted
to the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has provided a guarantee, support agreement,
letter of credit or other similar arrangement for any indebtedness of any of these individuals to any other entity.

ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION

Information about NexGen

Financial information relating to the Company
is provided in the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements (the “Financial Statements”) and the
management’s discussion and analysis (the “MD&A”) for the financial year ended December 31, 2023. Shareholders
may download the Financial Statements and the MD&A from SEDAR+ (www.sedarplus.ca) or contact
the Company directly to request copies of the Financial Statements and the MD&A by: (i) mail to #3150 - 1021 West Hastings Street,
Vancouver, British Columbia V6E 0C3 or (ii) e-mail to ddang@nxe-energy.ca.

Technical Disclosure

All technical information in this Management
Information Circular has been reviewed and approved by Jason Craven, NexGen’s Manager, Exploration, as a qualified person under
National Instrument 43-101.

Cautionary Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Information and Statements

This Circular contains “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking
information” within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward looking information and statements include,
but are not limited to, statements with respect to planned exploration and development activities, the future interpretation of geological
information, the cost and results of exploration and development activities, future financings, the future price of uranium and requirements
for additional capital. Generally, forward-looking information and statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology
such as “plans”, “expects”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”,
“forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates”, or “believes”, or the negative connotation thereof
or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”,
“might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved” or the negative connotation thereof.

Forward-looking information and statements are
based on the then current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about NexGen’s business and the industry and
markets in which it operates. Forward- looking information and statements are made based upon numerous assumptions, including among others,
that the results of planned exploration and development activities are as anticipated and on time, the price of uranium, the cost of planned
exploration and development activities, there will be limited changes in any project parameters as plans continue to be refined, that
financing will be available if and when needed and on reasonable terms, that third-party contractors, equipment, supplies and governmental
and other approvals required to conduct NexGen’s planned exploration and development activities will be available on reasonable
terms and in a timely manner, that there will be no revocation of government approvals and that general business, economic, competitive,
social, and political conditions will not change in a material adverse manner.

Although the assumptions made by the Company
in providing forward-looking information or making forward- looking statements are considered reasonable by management at the time, there
can be no assurance that such assumptions will prove to be accurate.

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 78
 2024 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
 

 

Forward-looking information and statements also
involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performances and achievements of
NexGen to differ materially from any projections of results, performances and achievements of NexGen expressed or implied by such forward-looking
information or statements, including, among others, negative operating cash flow and dependence on third-party financing, uncertainty
of additional financing, price of uranium, the appeal of alternate sources of energy, exploration risks, uninsurable risks, reliance upon
key management and other personnel, imprecision of mineral resource estimates, potential cost overruns on any development, changes in
climate or increases in environmental regulation, aboriginal title and consultation issues, deficiencies in the Corporation’s title
to its properties, information security and cyber threats, failure to manage conflicts of interest, failure to obtain or maintain required
permits and licenses, changes in laws, regulations and policy, competition for resources and financing, volatility in market price of
the Corporation’s shares, and other factors discussed or referred to in the AIF under the heading “Risk Factors”.

Although NexGen has attempted to identify important
factors that could cause actual actions, events or results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking information or
statements, there may be other factors that cause actions, events or results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.

There can be no assurance that such information
or statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated, estimated
or intended. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking information or statements. The forward-looking information
and statements contained in this Circular are made as of the date of this Circular and, accordingly, are subject to change after such
date. NexGen does not undertake to update or reissue forward-looking information as a result of new information or events except as required
by applicable securities laws.

Board Approval

The foregoing contains no untrue statement of
a material fact and does not omit to state a material fact that is required to be stated or that is necessary to make a statement not
misleading in light of the circumstances in which it is made. The contents and the sending of the Circular have been approved by the Board.

 

 
 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 OF NEXGEN ENERGY LTD.
 
 “Leigh Curyer”
 
 President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 Vancouver, British Columbia 
May 1, 2024
 
 

 

 

 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR |PAGE 79
 
 

SCHEDULE A

 

BOARD MANDATE

I.GENERAL

The Board of Directors (the “Board”)
has the responsibility to supervise the management of the business and affairs of NexGen Energy Ltd. (the “Corporation”) and
all entities controlled by the Corporation other than those controlled entities that have securities listed on a securities exchange and
are subject to their own corporate governance standards and policies, (collectively, “NexGen”) in the best interests of the
holders of the Corporation’s shares (the “Shareholders”). A fundamental objective of the Board is to enhance and preserve
long-term value to the Corporation, to confirm that NexGen meets its obligations on an ongoing basis and to confirm that NexGen operates
in a reliable and safe manner. In performing its functions, the Board will, when required by law, consider the legitimate interests of
its other stakeholders (such as employees, service providers and communities).

The Board has responsibility for managing its
own affairs and the stewardship of NexGen, including constituting committees of the Board and determining director compensation. The Board
will oversee the systems of corporate governance and financial reporting and controls to satisfy itself that the Corporation reports adequate
and fair financial information to Shareholders and engages in ethical and legal conduct. The Board will appoint the officers of the Corporation
by resolution.

II.BOARD CHAIR

The Board will appoint a chair (the “Board
Chair”), who, if possible and if in the best interests of NexGen, will be a person other than an officer or employee of the Corporation.
The Board Chair reports to the Board and provides leadership to the Board in matters relating to the effective execution of all Board
responsibilities, as well as works with the Chief Executive Officer (the “CEO”) to ensure that the Corporation fulfills its
responsibilities to stakeholders including Shareholders, employees, partners, governments and the public.

III.STRATEGIC PLANNING

The Board has the responsibility to confirm there
are long-term operational and financial goals and objectives, and a strategic planning process in place for NexGen and to participate
with management in developing and approving the strategy by which it proposes to achieve these goals and objectives. The Board will:

(a)adopt a strategic planning process and review and approve annually a
corporate strategic plan which takes into account, among other things, the opportunities and risks of the business on a long-term and
short-term basis; and

(b)monitor performance against the strategic plan.

IV.RISK MANAGEMENT

The Board has the responsibility to understand
the primary risks of the business in which NexGen is engaged and verify that NexGen achieves a proper balance between risks incurred and
the potential return to the Corporation and its Shareholders. The Board must also confirm that there are systems in place which effectively
monitor and manage those risks with a view to the long-term viability of NexGen. The Board will:

(a)confirm that a management system is in place to identify the principal risks to NexGen and its business
and that appropriate procedures are in place to monitor and mitigate those risks;

(b)confirm that management processes are in place to address and comply with applicable regulatory, corporate,
securities and other compliance matters; and

(c)review insurance coverage annually.

 

 
 
 

 

V.FINANCIAL REPORTING AND MANAGEMENT

The Board will, with the assistance of reports
and/or recommendations of the Audit Committee:

(a)approve financial statements and review and oversee compliance with applicable
audit, accounting and financial reporting requirements;

(b)approve annual operating and capital budgets;

(c)approve cash management plans and strategies and all activities relating
to cash accounts and cash investment portfolios, including the establishment and maintenance of bank, investment and brokerage accounts;

(d)confirm that the Audit Committee has established a system for the receipt,
retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, including the confidential,
anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters; and

(e)approve significant changes in accounting practices or policies.

VI.CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The Board as a whole is responsible for overseeing
and developing the Corporation’s approach to corporate governance.

The Board will:

(a)review and approve changes to the Corporation’s Corporate Governance
Guidelines, which Guidelines shall set out the expectations of directors, including basic duties and responsibilities with respect to
attendance at Board meetings and advance review of meeting materials;

(b)The Board shall establish from time-to-time committees so as to assist
it in discharging its responsibilities and functions more effectively and so as to comply with all applicable rules and regulations relating
to the Corporation, and approve and periodically review their respective charters and limits of authority delegated to each committee;

(c)develop, approve and periodically review written position descriptions
for the Board Chair, the CEO and, if it deems desirable, the Chairperson of each committee of the Board, and measure the performance of
those acting in such capacities against such position descriptions;

(d)oversee, either directly or through an appropriate committee, the review
of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors on an annual basis.

VII.CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS

The Board has adopted a Code of Ethics that governs
the behaviour of directors, officers and employees working for NexGen, and has established procedures for monitoring compliance. The Board
must approve any amendments and waivers and ensure disclosure of any amendments and waivers as required by applicable law or regulation.