EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

EARLY WARNING NEWS RELEASE 
(Montréal, July 3, 2018) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (TSX
& NYSE:OR) (“Osisko”) announces that it has completed the previously
announced purchase from Falco Resources Ltd. (TSXV:FPC) (“Falco”) of a secured
debenture having a principal amount of C$7,000,000 (the “Debenture”). The
Debenture will, upon approval of the disinterested shareholders of Falco, become
convertible (the “Conversion”) into units of Falco, with each unit comprised of
one common share of Falco and one-half of one common share purchase warrant of
Falco. Immediately prior to the closing of the Debenture, Osisko had beneficial
ownership of, or control and direction over, (i) 23,927,005 common shares of
Falco, representing approximately 12.7% of the issued and outstanding common
shares of Falco, and (ii) 1,550,500 common share purchase warrants. Immediately
following the closing of the Debenture, assuming receipt of the disinterested
shareholder approval of Falco as a result of which the Conversion will become
effective, and after giving effect to the exercise of the common share purchase
warrants then held by Osisko, including the warrants issuable upon the
Conversion, Osisko would have beneficial ownership of, or control and direction
over, 43,634,171 common shares of Falco, representing approximately 20.9% of the
common shares that would then be issued and outstanding. 
At the meeting of shareholders of Falco where disinterested
shareholder approval will be sought, the shareholders will also be asked to
approve a waiver of the Shareholder Rights Plan of Falco should, as a result of
the Conversion, Osisko become the beneficial owner of more than 20% of the
issued and outstanding common shares of Falco (on a partially-diluted basis
assuming exercise of the warrants of Falco then held by Osisko). 
In connection with the purchase of the Debenture, Falco and
Osisko have also entered into as of the date hereof an investor rights
agreement, pursuant to which, among other rights, Osisko has obtained the right
to designate two individuals for election or appointment to the board of
directors of Falco, which individuals are, as of the date hereof, Mr. Sean
Roosen and Mr. Bryan A. Coates. 
Osisko acquired the Debenture for investment purposes and in
accordance with applicable securities laws, Osisko may, from time to time and at
any time, acquire additional common shares of Falco and/or other equity, debt or
other securities or instruments (collectively, “Securities”) of Falco in the
open market or otherwise, and reserves the right to dispose of any or all of its
Securities in the open market or otherwise at any time and from time to time,
and to engage in similar transactions with respect to the Securities, the whole
depending on market conditions, the business and prospects of Falco and other
relevant factors.
This news release is issued under the early warning provisions
of the Canadian securities legislation. A copy of the early warning report to be
filed by Osisko in connection with the Debenture described above will be
available on SEDAR under Falco’s profile. To obtain a copy of the early warning
report, you may also contact Joseph de la Plante, Vice President, Corporate
Development of Osisko at (514) 940-0670. Falco’s head office is located at 1100
avenue des Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s portfolio is
anchored by five cornerstone assets, including a 5% net smelter return royalty
on the Canadian Malartic mine, which is the largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko
also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource companies, including a 15.5%
interest in Osisko Mining Inc., and a 32.4% interest in Barkerville Gold Mines
Ltd. 
1 

Osisko is a corporation incorporated under the laws of the
Province of Québec, with its head office located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
For further information please contact, please contact
Osisko: 
Joseph de la Plante Vice President, Corporate Development
Tel. (514) 940-0670 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com
2