EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD STOCK OPTION PLAN

1. 
PURPOSE 
The purpose of the Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") of
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (the "Corporation") is to advance the
interests of the Corporation and each subsidiary of the Corporation (a
"Subsidiary") by encouraging the Directors, officers, management,
consultants and employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries to acquire
shares in the Corporation, thereby increasing their proprietary interest in the
Corporation, encouraging them to remain associated with the Corporation and its
Subsidiaries and furnishing them with additional incentive in their efforts on
behalf of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries. 
2. 
ADMINISTRATION 
The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation or by a committee of the Board of Directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors
shall have authority to construe and interpret the Plan and all option
agreements entered into thereunder, to define the terms used in the Plan and in
all option agreements entered into thereunder, to prescribe, amend and rescind
rules and regulations relating to the Plan and to make all other determinations
necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. All determinations
and interpretations made by the Board of Directors shall be binding and
conclusive on all participants in the Plan and on their legal personal
representatives and beneficiaries. 
3. 
 SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN 
Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 15 hereof, the
shares to be offered under the Plan shall consist of the Corporation's
authorized but unissued common shares. The aggregate number of common shares to
be delivered upon the exercise of all options granted under the Plan shall not
exceed the greater of eight percent (8%) of the issued and outstanding common
shares at the time of granting of Options (on a non-diluted basis) or such other
number as may be approved by the Toronto Stock Exchange ("TSX") and the
shareholders of the Corporation from time to time. 
If any option granted hereunder shall expire or terminate for
any reason without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased shares subject
thereto shall again be available for the purpose of this Plan. 
4. 
ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION 
Executive directors, officers, management, consultants and
employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries shall be eligible for
selection to participate in the Plan (such persons hereinafter collectively
referred to as "Participants"). The Board of Directors shall determine to
whom options shall be granted, the terms and provisions of the respective option
agreements, the time or times at which such options shall be granted, and the
number of shares to be subject to each option. An individual who has been
granted an option may, if he is otherwise eligible, and if permitted under the
policies of the stock exchange or stock exchanges on which the shares of the
Corporation are to be listed, be granted an additional option or options if the
Directors shall so determine. 
5. 
EXERCISE PRICE 
The exercise price, terms and conditions of the options will be
established by the Board of Directors subject to the rules of the regulatory
authorities having jurisdiction over the securities of the Corporation. 

 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
 Page 2
 
 Stock Option Plan
 
 
 
The exercise price at the time of the grant of the options
shall not be less than the closing market price of the common shares listed on
the TSX on the day prior to their grant. 
6. 
 NUMBER OF OPTIONED SHARES 
The number of shares subject to an option to a Participant
shall be determined in the resolution of the Board of Directors and no
Participant shall be granted an option which exceeds 5% of the issued and
outstanding shares of the Corporation at the time of granting of the option.

The aggregate number of shares (a) issued to insiders of the
Corporation within any one-year period, and (b) issuable to insiders of the
Corporation at any time, under the Plan, or when combined with all other share
compensation arrangements, cannot exceed 8% of the issued and outstanding
shares. Any entitlement to acquire shares granted pursuant to the Plan or any
other share compensation arrangement prior to the grantee becoming an insider
shall be excluded for the purposes of the limits set out in (a) and (b)
above.
7. 
DURATION OF OPTION 
Each option and all rights thereunder shall be expressed to
expire on the date set out in the option agreements and shall be subject to
earlier termination as provided in Sections 9, 10, 11 and 12. 
8. 
OPTION PERIOD, CONSIDERATION AND PAYMENT 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 The period within which such option shall be exercised
 (the "Option Period") shall be a period of time fixed by the Board
 of Directors, not to exceed seven (7) years from the date the option is
 granted, provided that the Option Period shall be reduced with respect to
 any option as provided in Sections 9, 10, 11, 12 and 15.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Except as set forth in Section 12 and subject to the
 provisions of Section 9, an option shall vest and may be exercised (in
 each case to the nearest full share) during the Option Period in such
 manner as the Board of Directors may fix by resolution. Options which have
 vested may be exercised in whole or in part at any time and from time to
 time during the Option Period. To the extent required by any stock
 exchange or stock exchanges on which the shares of the Corporation are
 listed, no option may be exercised under this Plan until this Plan has
 been approved by a resolution duly passed by the shareholders of the
 Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Except as set forth in Sections 9, 10, 11 and 12, no
 option may be exercised unless the Participant is at the time of such
 exercise a director, officer, manager, consultant or employee of the
 Corporation or a Subsidiary; except in the case of a consultant, where the
 option has been granted for a specific service, the option may be
 exercised only upon completion of that service.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 The exercise of any option will be contingent upon
 receipt by the Corporation at its head office of a written notice of
 exercise, specifying the number of shares with respect to which the option
 is being exercised, accompanied by cash payment, certified cheque or bank
 draft for the full purchase price of such shares with respect to which the
 option is exercised. No Participant or his legal representatives, legatees
 or distributees will be, or will be deemed to be, a holder of any shares
 subject to an option under this Plan, unless and until the certificates
 for such shares are issued to him or them under the terms of the
 Plan.

 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
 Page 3
 
 
 Stock Option Plan 
 
 

 
 
 (e) 
 
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the term
 of an option expires during such period of time during which insiders are
 prohibited from trading in shares as provided by the Corporation’s insider
 trading policy, as it may be implemented and amended from time to time
 (the "Blackout Period") or within 10 business days thereafter, the
 option shall expire on the date that is 10 business days following the
 Blackout Period. Although the Blackout Period would only cover insiders of
 the Corporation, the extension would apply to all participants who have
 options which expire during the Blackout Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 During an Option Period or a period prescribed by Section
 8(e), as the case may be, a Participant may, by sending a notice to the
 Corporation containing the information set out in Section 8(d), elect to
 exercise the Participant’s options in accordance with the mechanism of
 this Section 8(f). In which case, the Participant (i) consents to receive
 a loan payable on demand from the Corporation for a principal amount equal
 to the amount of the exercise price (the "Advance"), (ii) directs
 for the proceeds from the loan to be used to pay for the exercise price of
 the options specified in the notice, (iii) consents to have the
 Corporation sell, or arrange for the sale, in the market or as the
 Corporation may determine, on behalf of any beneficiary, such portion of
 any shares issuable to the Participant on exercise of any option as the
 Corporation may determine, in order to realize net cash proceeds
 sufficient for the Participant to repay the Advance, and (iv) hereby
 directs such net cash proceeds to be paid to the Corporation in
 satisfaction of the Participant’s obligation to repay the Advance to the
 Corporation. If any investment bank or other person sells any shares on
 behalf of a Participant as contemplated in this Section 8(f), any net
 amount after deduction of the Advance and withholding amount shall be paid
 to the Participant.

 
 9. 
 
 CHANGE OF CONTROL
 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 For the purposes of this Section 9, "Change of
 Control" shall mean:
 
 
 
 
 9.1.1 
 
 if a person, by means of a takeover bid made in
 accordance with the applicable provisions of the Securities Act
 (Québec) (the "Securities Act"), directly or indirectly,
 acquires an interest in one of the Corporation’s classes of shares
 conferring 30% or more of the votes entitling him to elect the Directors
 of the Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 9.1.2 
 
 if a person, by means of stock market transactions,
 directly or indirectly, acquires an interest in one of the Corporation’s
 classes of shares conferring 30% or more of the votes entitling him to
 elect the Directors of the Corporation; however, the acquisition of
 securities by the Corporation itself through one of its Subsidiaries or
 affiliates, or by means of an employee benefits plan of the Corporation or
 one of its Subsidiaries or affiliates (or by the trustee of any such
 plan), shall not constitute a takeover;
 
 
 
 
 9.1.3 
 
 the consummation of any transaction including, without
 limitation, any consolidation, amalgamation, merger, arrangement or issue
 of voting securities the result of which is that any person or group of
 persons acting jointly or in concert for purposes of such transaction
 (other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries) becomes the beneficial
 owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 30% of the voting securities
 of the Corporation or of any such consolidated, amalgamated, merged or
 other continuing-entity, measured by voting power rather than number of
 securities (but shall not include the creation of a holding company or
 similar transaction that does not involve a change in the beneficial
 ownership of the Corporation);

 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
 Page 4
 
 
 Stock Option Plan 
 
 

 
 9.1.4 
 
 if the individuals making up the Board of Directors of
 the Corporation on the effective date of this agreement, and any new
 director appointed by the Board of Directors or whose candidacy, presented
 by the shareholders of the Corporation, was confirmed by a vote of at
 least three fourths of the Directors then in office or who were in office
 on the effective date of this Plan, or whose nomination or candidacy,
 presented by the shareholders, was confirmed in the same manner
 thereafter, cease for any reason whatsoever to constitute a majority of
 the members of the Board Directors of the Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 9.1.5 
 
 if the assets of the Corporation representing 10% or more
 of the net book value of the Corporation’s assets, or if the shares of one
 class carrying 10% or more of all voting rights of the Corporation
 entitling their holders to elect Directors, were transferred after a
 takeover, seizure or dispossession resulting from or relating to (i) a
 nationalization, expropriation, confiscation, coercion, forcing or
 constraint, or any other expense or confiscatory clawback. For the
 purposes of this paragraph, the value of the Corporation’s assets shall be
 established based on the most recent audited financial statements of the
 Corporation on the date of the transfer;
 
 
 
 
 9.1.6 
 
 the sale, lease or exchange of 50% or more of the
 property of the Corporation to another person or entity, other than in the
 ordinary course of business of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries;
 for greater certainty, the sale, lease or exchange of 50% or more of the
 property of the Corporation to an entity in which the Corporation hold,
 directly or indirectly, 50% or less of the voting securities will be
 considered, for the purposes hereof, a “Change of Control”;
 
 
 
 
 9.1.7 
 
 any other transaction that is deemed to be a “Change of
 Control” for the purposes of this Plan by the Board of directions in its
 sole discretion.
 
 
 
 
 9.2 
 
 Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained
 in this Plan, all options outstanding at the time of a Change of Control
 shall vest and become immediately exercisable.
10. 
CEASING TO BE A DIRECTOR, OFFICER, MANAGER OR EMPLOYEE
If a Participant shall cease to be a director, officer,
manager, consultant or employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary for any
reason (other than disability, retirement with the consent of the Corporation or
death) the options granted to such Participant may be exercised in whole or in
part by the Participant, during a period commencing on the date of such
cessation and ending 180 days thereafter or on the expiry date, whichever comes
first. 
Nothing contained in the Plan, nor in any option granted
pursuant to the Plan, shall as such confer upon any Participant any right with
respect to continuance as a director, officer, manager, consultant or employee
of the Corporation or of any Subsidiary or affiliate. 
11. 
DISABILIY OR RETIREMENT OF PARTICIPANT 
If a Participant shall cease to be a director, officer,
manager, consultant or employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary by reason of
disability or retirement with the consent of the Corporation, the options
granted to such Participant may be exercised in whole or in part by the
Participant, during a period commencing on the date of such termination and
ending one year thereafter or on the expiry date, whichever comes first.

 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
 Page 5
 
 
 Stock Option Plan 
 
 

12. 
DEATH OF PARTICIPANT 
In the event of the death of the Participant, the options
previously granted to such Participant shall automatically vest and may be
exercised in whole or in part by the legal person representative of the
Participant during a period commencing on the date of the death and ending one
year thereafter or on the expiry date, whichever comes first. 
13. 
RIGHTS OF OPTIONEE 
No person entitled to exercise any option granted under the
Plan shall have any of the rights or privileges of a shareholder of the
Corporation in respect of any shares issuable upon exercise of such option until
certificates representing such shares shall have been issued. 
14. 
PROCEEDS FROM SALE OF SHARES 
The proceeds from sale of shares issued upon the exercise of
options shall be added to the general funds of the Corporation and shall
thereafter be used from time to time for such corporate purposes as the Board of
Directors may determine and direct. 
15. 
ADJUSTMENTS 
In the event that the outstanding shares of the Corporation are
changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other
securities of the Corporation, or in the event that there is a reorganization,
amalgamation, consolidation, subdivision, reclassification, dividend payable in
capital stock or other change in the capital stock of the Corporation, then each
Participant holding an option shall thereafter upon the exercise of the option
granted to him, be entitled to receive, in lieu of the number of shares to which
the Participant was theretofore entitled upon such exercise, the kind and amount
of shares or other securities or property which the Participant would have been
entitled to receive as a result of any such event if, on the effective date
thereof, the Participant had been the holder of the shares to which he was
theretofore entitled upon such exercise. 
In the event the Corporation proposes to amalgamate, merge or
consolidate with any other Corporation (other than with a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Corporation) or to liquidate, dissolve or wind-up, or in the
event an offer to purchase the shares of the Corporation or any part thereof
shall be made to all holders of shares of the Corporation, the Corporation shall
have the right, upon written notice thereof to each Participant, to require the
exercise of the option granted within the thirty (30) day period next following
the date of such notice and to determine that upon such thirty (30) day period,
all rights of the Participant to exercise same (to the extent not theretofore
exercised) shall ipso facto terminate and cease to have any further force or
effect whatsoever. 
16. 
TRANSFERABILITY 
All benefits, rights and options accruing to any Participant in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan shall not be transferable
or assignable unless specifically provided herein. During the lifetime of a
Participant any benefits, rights and options may only be exercised by the
Participant. 

 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
 Page 6
 
 
 Stock Option Plan 
 
 

17. 
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 The approval of the Board and the requisite approval from
 the TSX and the Shareholders shall be required for any of the following
 amendments to be made to the Plan:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 any amendment to the number of shares issuable under the
 Plan, including an increase in the fixed maximum number of shares or a
 change from a fixed maximum number of shares to a fixed maximum
 percentage;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 a reduction in the exercise price of an option (for this
 purpose, a cancellation or termination of an option of a Participant prior
 to its expiry for the purpose of reissuing Options to the same Participant
 with a lower exercise price shall be treated as an amendment to reduce the
 exercise price of an option), other than for standard anti-dilution
 purposes;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 an increase in the maximum number of shares that may be
 issued to insiders within any one year period or that are issuable to
 insiders at any time;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 an extension of the term of any option beyond the
 original expiry date (except, for greater certainty, pursuant to Section
 8(e));
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (v) 
 
 any change to the definition of "Participant" which would
 have the potential of broadening or increasing insider
 participation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (vi) 
 
 the addition of any form of financial
 assistance;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (vii) 
 
 any amendment to a financial assistance provision which
 is more favourable to optionees;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (viii) 
 
 the addition of a cashless exercise feature, payable in
 cash or securities, which does not provide for a full deduction of the
 number of underlying securities from the Plan reserve;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ix) 
 
 the addition of a deferred or restricted share unit or
 any other provision which results in optionnees receiving securities while
 no cash consideration is received by the Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (x) 
 
 any amendment to Section 16;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (xi) 
 
 any amendment that may modify or delete any of this
 Section 17(a); and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (xii) 
 
 any other amendments that may lead to significant or
 unreasonable dilution in the Corporation’s outstanding securities or may
 provide additional benefits to Participants, especially insiders, at the
 expense of the Corporation and its existing
Shareholders.

 
 
 (b) 
 
 The Board may, without Shareholder approval but subject
 to receipt of requisite approval from the TSX, in its sole discretion make
 all other amendments to the Plan that are not of the type contemplated in
 Section 17(a) above including, without
limitation:

 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
 Page 7
 
 
 Stock Option Plan 
 
 

 
 
 (i) 
 
 amendments of housekeeping nature;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 a change to the vesting provisions of an option or the
 Plan;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 a change to the termination provisions of an option or
 the Plan which does not entail an extension beyond the original expiry
 date; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 the addition of a cashless exercise feature, payable in
 cash or securities, which provides for a full deduction of the number of
 underlying securities from the Plan reserve.
18. 
NECESSARY APPROVALS 
The obligation of the Corporation to issue and deliver shares
in accordance with the Plan is subject to any approvals which may be required
from any regulatory authority or stock exchange having jurisdiction over the
securities of the Corporation. If any shares cannot be issued to any Participant
for whatever reason, the obligation of the Corporation to issue such shares
shall terminate and any option exercise price paid to the Corporation will be
returned to the Participant. 
19. 
STOCK EXCHANGE RULES 
The rules of any stock exchange upon which the Corporation's
shares are listed shall be applicable relative to options granted to
Participants. 
20. 
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN 
The Plan has been adopted by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation subject to the approval of the stock exchange or stock exchanges on
which the shares of the Corporation are to be listed and, if so approved, the
Plan shall become effective upon such approvals being obtained. 
21. 
INTERPRETATION 
The Plan will be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of Canada and of the Province of Québec. 
Adopted by the Board of Directors on April 30, 2014 and by
the shareholders of the Corporation on May 30, 2014 and further ratified by the
Board of Directors on June 30, 2014. 
Amended by the Board of Directors on May 22, 2015.