EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO MAKES INITIAL C$9.8 MILLION INVESTMENT TOWARDS C$100
MILLION SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM AND REDUCES DEBT BY US$43 MILLION

(Montréal, January 7, 2019) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(“Osisko” or the “Company”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to report that it
has completed an initial investment of C$9.8 million towards its normal course
issuer bid (“NCIB”) for a total 849,480 shares purchased for cancellation at an
average price of C$11.56 per share during the month of December 2018 (“Share
Repurchases”) and that it has repaid US$43 million on its revolving credit
facility (“Debt Reimbursement”). 
The Share Repurchases were completed as an initial investment
towards the Company’s previously announced intention to deploy up to C$100
million towards purchases under its NCIB. As a reminder, in December 2018,
Osisko announced that in light of current market conditions, it believes the
Company’s shares are an attractive investment opportunity and is prepared to
deploy up to C$100 million towards its NCIB. 
The actual number of common shares that may be purchased and
the timing of such purchases will be determined by the Company. Decisions
regarding purchases will be based on market conditions, share price, best use of
available cash and other factors. Any securities acquired under the NCIB of the
Company will be cancelled. 
Following the Debt Reimbursement, only C$30 million remains
drawn on the Company’s C$350 million revolving credit facility as at December
31, 2018, which has an additional uncommitted accordion of up to $100 million
(for a total available facility size of C$450 million). The facility is
available until November 14, 2022 and may be extended by one year on each
anniversary date. 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
Osisko noted: “We are aggressively redeploying the C$159.4 million in proceeds
received from Pretium Exploration for the repurchase of the Brucejack gold and
silver stream, towards our debt reduction program and remain firmly committed to
repurchasing our shares in light of current valuation levels, while maintaining
financial flexibility to pursue near term cash flow generating value creation
opportunities.” 
As at December 31, 2018, Osisko has approximately $1 billion in
cash resources, credit facilities, and investments in equities available for the
acquisition of streams and royalties. 
1 

About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas. Osisko holds a North American focused
portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s
portfolio is anchored by its 5% net smelter return royalty on the Canadian
Malartic mine, which is the largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a
portfolio of publicly held resource companies, including a 16.7% interest in
Osisko Mining Inc., a 32.3% interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd., a 17.8%
interest in Falco Resources Ltd. and a 10.6% interest in Osisko Metals
Incorporated. 
Osisko is incorporated under the laws of the Province of
Québec, with its head office located at 1100 avenue des Canadiens-de-Montréal,
Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
For further information, please contact Osisko Gold
Royalties: 
Joseph de la Plante Vice President, Corporate Development
Tel. (514) 940-0670 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com
Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward–looking statements” within the meaning of
applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. These
forward–looking statements, by their nature, require Osisko to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward–looking statements.
Forward–looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
These forward–looking statements, may involve, but are not limited
to the intended use of proceeds received from Pretium Exploration, including the
flexibility to pursue near term cash flow generating value creation
opportunities, and the investment opportunity related to the common shares of
the Company. Words such as “may”, “will”, “would”, “could”, “expect”, “believe”,
“plan”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”, “continue”, or the negative or
comparable terminology, as well as terms usually used in the future and the
conditional, are intended to identify forward–looking statements.
Information contained in forward–looking statements is based upon
certain material assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making
a forecast or projection, including management’s perceptions of historical
trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other
considerations that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. Osisko
considers its assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently
available, but cautions the reader that their assumptions regarding future
events, many of which are beyond the control of Osisko, may ultimately prove to
be incorrect since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect
Osisko and its business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward–looking statements
made in this press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most
recent Annual Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian
securities commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer
profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on EDGAR
at www.sec.gov. The forward–looking statements set forth herein
reflects Osisko’s expectations as at the date of this press release and is
subject to change after such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation
to update or revise any forward–looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 
2