EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

Form 51-102F3 MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT 
Item 1. – Name and Address of Reporting Issuer 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (the "Corporation" or
"Osisko") 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de-Montréal Suite 300
Montréal, Québec H3B 2S2 
Item 2. – Date of Material Change 
June 4, 2017 
Item 3. – News Release 
A news release with respect to the material change referred to
in this report was issued by the Corporation through the facilities of
Marketwired and filed on the system for electronic document analysis and
retrieval (SEDAR) on June 5, 2017. 
Item 4. – Summary of Material Change 
On June 4, 2017, the Corporation entered into an acquisition
agreement (the "Acquisition Agreement") with Orion Mine Finance (Master)
Fund I LP, Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion Co-Investments I
(Stream) LLC, Orion Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments IV LP, 8248567
Canada Limited and Lynx Metals Limited (collectively, the "Orion Mine Finance
Group") whereby, subject to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, Osisko
will acquire all of the right, title and interest in 74 royalties, streams and
precious metal offtakes (the "Purchased Assets") held by the Orion Mine
Finance Group, directly or through the sale of shares or other equity ownership
interests of entities wholly-owned or partially-owned by the Orion Mine Finance
Group (the "Acquisition"). 
Under the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Orion Mine
Finance Group will receive, in exchange for the Purchased Assets, consideration
comprised of (i) C$675 million in cash, subject to adjustment in accordance with
the terms of the Acquisition Agreement (the "Cash Consideration"), and
(ii) 30,906,594 common shares in the capital of Osisko ("Common Shares")
at a price of C$14.56 per Common Share (the "Share Consideration" and,
together with the Cash Consideration, the "Purchase Price"). 
To fund a portion of the Cash Consideration, concurrent with
the closing of the Acquisition, Osisko will complete a private placement ,
pursuant to which 18,887,363 Common Shares will be issued at a price of C$14.56
per Common Share for aggregate gross proceeds of C$275 million (the "Private
Placement"). The Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (the
"Caisse") (C$200 million, 13,736,264 Common Shares) and the Fonds de
solidarité FTQ (the "Fonds FTQ") (C$75 million, 5,151,099 Common Shares)
are the two subscribers under the Private Placement, and have each entered into
a subscription agreement with Osisko dated June 4, 2017 (each, a
"Subscription Agreement" and collectively, the "Subscription
Agreements"). The Private Placement is subject to a seven percent capital
commitment payment payable on the closing of the Private Placement to the Caisse
and the Fonds FTQ partially in cash (five percent) and partially in Common
Shares (two percent) (the "Capital Commitments"). 
Item 5. – Full Description of Material Change 
On June 4, 2017, the Corporation entered into the Acquisition
Agreement with the Orion Mine Finance Group whereby, subject to the terms of the
Acquisition Agreement, Osisko will acquire the Purchased Assets held by the
Orion Mine Finance Group, directly or through the sale of shares or other equity
ownership interests of entities wholly-owned or partially-owned by the Orion
Mine Finance Group. 

- 2 - 
Purchase Price 
Under the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Orion Mine
Finance Group will receive, in exchange for the Purchased Assets, the Purchase
Price comprised of the Cash Consideration (C$675 million) and the Share
Consideration (30,906,594 Common Shares). 
To fund a portion of the Cash Consideration, concurrent with
the closing of the Acquisition, Osisko will complete the Private Placement,
pursuant to which 18,887,363 Common Shares will be issued at a price of C$14.56
per Common Share for aggregate gross proceeds of C$275 million. The Caisse
(C$200 million, 13,736,264 Common Shares) and the Fonds FTQ (C$75 million,
5,151,099 Common Shares) are the two subscribers under the Private Placement,
and have each entered into a Subscription Agreement with Osisko dated June 4,
2017. The Private Placement is subject to the Capital Commitments. The Capital
Commitments are payable by the issuance of an aggregate of 385,457 Common Shares
and the payment of C$13.75 million in cash. 
Osisko will fund the remainder of the Cash Consideration
through a drawdown of C$150 million from its existing revolving credit facility
with the National Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal and C$250 million from its
existing cash reserves. 
Upon the closing of the Acquisition and the Private Placement,
it is expected that the Orion Mine Finance Group, the Caisse and the Fonds FTQ
will hold approximately 19.7%, 12.1% and 5.5%, respectively, of the issued and
outstanding Common Shares, on a pro forma basis. 
Purchased Assets
The Purchased Assets will consist of 61 royalties, seven
precious metal offtakes and six streams. Specifically, the Purchased Assets will
include the following material assets:

 
 
 • 
 
 Renard Diamond Stream ("Renard Stream"): The
 Renard mine is a producing diamond mine located in Québec, Canada operated
 by Stornoway Diamond Corporation. The Renard mine is currently ramping-up
 and is expected to produce on average approximately 1.6 million carats per
 annum over a 14-year mine life, with potential for significant upside from
 the recovery of large diamonds. Under the Renard Stream agreement, Osisko
 will receive 9.6% of diamond production and will pay an ongoing transfer
 price of US$50/carat. The Caisse currently owns a separate 4% diamond
 stream on the Renard mine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Brucejack Gold and Silver Stream ("Brucejack Stream"):
 Brucejack is a high-grade gold mine located in British Columbia,
 Canada operated by Pretium Resources Inc. The Brucejack mine is currently
 in the commissioning phase and is expected to achieve commercial
 production in 2017. Under the Brucejack Stream agreement, Osisko will
 receive 4% of gold and silver production until 7.067 million ounces of
 gold and 26.297 million ounces of silver have been produced from the
 Brucejack mine, subject to a US$400/oz and US$4.00/oz ongoing transfer
 payment for gold and silver, respectively. The Brucejack Stream agreement
 is subject to certain buyback rights held by Pretium Resources Inc., which
 could result in the Brucejack Stream being repurchased by Pretium
 Resources Inc. on December 31, 2018 or other dates specified in the
 Brucejack Stream agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Mantos Blancos Silver Stream ("Mantos Stream"):
 Mantos Blancos is a large, producing copper mine located in Antofagasta,
 Chile operated by Mantos Copper S.A. (a private mining company). The
 Mantos Blancos mine is expected to produce an average of approximately
 600,000 ounces of payable silver over 2017-2020 and an average of
 approximately 1 million ounces of silver annually over the remainder of
 its estimated 13-year mine life. Under the Mantos Stream agreement, Osisko
 will receive 100% of payable silver from Mantos Blancos until 19.3 million
 ounces of payable silver have been produced at the Mantos Blancos mine,
 after which the Mantos Stream percentage will be 30% of payable silver. Osisko
will pay an ongoing transfer payment of 25% of the prevailing spot price of
silver. 

- 3 -
Additional disclosure regarding the Purchased Assets will be
 provided in the notice of meeting and management information circular of the
 Corporation to be delivered in connection with a special meeting of shareholders
 of Osisko expected to be held on July 31, 2017 ("Osisko Meeting"). At the
 Osisko Meeting, shareholders of Osisko will be asked to consider and, if deemed
 advisable, to pass, with or without variation, an ordinary resolution approving
 the issuance of up to 50,179,414 Common Shares, consisting of: (i) the
 30,906,594 Common Shares comprising the Share Consideration; (ii) the 18,887,363
 Common Shares to be issued under the Private Placement; and (iii) the 385,457
 Common Shares issuable as partial payment of the Capital Commitments (the
 "Share Issuance Resolution"). The notice of meeting and management
 information circular of the Corporation will be filed, in due course, on SEDAR
 under Osisko's issuer profile at www.sedar.com and EDGAR under Osisko's
issuer profile at www.sec.gov/edgar. 
Approvals and Closing 
The closing of the Acquisition and the Private Placement is
expected to occur on July 31, 2017, and is subject a number of closing
conditions, including approval of the Share Issuance Resolution at the Osisko
Meeting by a simple majority of the shareholders of Osisko and certain
regulatory approvals, including the approval of the Toronto Stock Exchange and
the New York Stock Exchange. 
Governance, Participation Rights, and Sale
Restrictions 
Upon closing of the Acquisition, Osisko will enter into a
shareholder participation agreement (the "Shareholder Participation
Agreement") with the party (or parties) of the Orion Mine Finance Group who
received the Common Shares comprising the Share Consideration (the "Orion
Shareholder"). Pursuant to the Shareholder Participation Agreement, Osisko
shall appoint to the board of directors of Osisko (the "Board"), Mr.
Oskar Lewnowski, the Orion Mine Finance Group's Chief Investment Officer, or
such other individual as may be designated by the Orion Shareholder prior to the
closing of the Acquisition. Additionally, for so long as the Orion Shareholder
and its affiliates hold in the aggregate 10% or more of the Common Shares, the
Orion Shareholder shall have a right to nominate one individual for election to
the Board at any meeting of Osisko shareholders held for the purpose of electing
members of the Board. Finally, the Shareholder Participation Agreement is
expected to restrict the Orion Shareholder from selling any of the Common Shares
comprising the Share Consideration without Osisko's consent (i) prior to the
first anniversary of the closing date of the Acquisition, subject to certain
limited exceptions, and (ii) from the first anniversary to the third anniversary
of the closing date of the Acquisition, any sale of the Common Shares comprising
the Share Consideration greater than or equal to 5% of the then outstanding
Common Shares during any six-month period will be subject to a broad
distribution requirement. 
Pursuant to the Subscription Agreement between the Caisse and
Osisko dated June 4, 2017 entered into in connection with the Private Placement,
Osisko will enter into an investor rights agreement (the "Investor Rights
Agreement") with the Caisse as of the closing date of the Private Placement.
Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement, the Caisse shall have the right to
appoint one nominee to the Board following the closing of the Private Placement.
Osisko shall appoint to the Board one nominee of the Caisse upon the closing of
the Private Placement. Additionally, for so long as the Caisse, together with
its affiliates, owns more than 10% of the outstanding Common Shares, the Caisse
shall have a right to nominate one individual for election to the Board at any
meeting of Osisko shareholders held for the purpose of electing members of the
Board. Under the Investor Rights Agreement, the Caisse will also have
pre-emptive rights to participate in future offerings of Osisko, whether by way
of public offerings or private placements of Common Shares or any other equity
securities or securities convertible or exchangeable into Common Shares or any
other equity securities, up to the aggregate pro rata ownership interest
of the Caisse together with its affiliates, to enable the Caisse to maintain its
equity position in Osisko (the "Pre-Emptive Rights"). The Pre-Emptive
Rights will remain in effect so long as the Caisse, together with its
affiliates, owns more than 10% of the outstanding Common Shares. The Pre-Emptive
Rights are also subject to certain restrictions including in
the case of acquisitions, arrangements and mergers. 

- 4 -
Additionally, (i) the Caisse and the Fonds FTQ have agreed that
 they will not sell or transfer, directly or indirectly, any of the Common Shares
 issued under the Private Placement, and (ii) the Caisse has agreed that it will
 not sell or transfer, directly or indirectly, any Common Shares otherwise held
 by the Caisse, directly or indirectly, as of June 4, 2017, for a period of six
 months following the closing of the Private Placement, unless otherwise approved
by Osisko. 
Descriptions in this report of the terms of the Acquisition
Agreement, the Subscription Agreements, the Investor Rights Agreement and the
Shareholder Participation Agreement are qualified in their entirety by the terms
of such documents. Copies of the Acquisition Agreement and the Subscription
Agreements are available on SEDAR under Osisko's issuer profile at
www.sedar.com and EDGAR under Osisko's issuer profile at
www.sec.gov/edgar. 
Qualified Person 
Mr. Luc Lessard is the qualified person for this release as
defined by National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects and has reviewed and verified the technical information contained
herein. Mr. Luc Lessard is an executive officer and employee of Osisko and is
non-independent. 
Item 6. – Reliance on subsection 7.1(2) of National
Instrument 51-102 
Not applicable. 
Item 7. – Omitted Information 
Not applicable. 
Item 8. – Executive Officer 
Inquiries in respect of the material change referred to herein
may be made to: 
André Le Bel Vice President Legal Affairs and Corporate
Secretary 
(514) 940-0670 x156 www.osiskogr.com 
Item 9. – Date of Report 
June 14, 2017