EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

Execution Copy 

 
 
 
 SHAREHOLDER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT 
 
 
dated July 31, 2017 
between 
BETELGEUSE LLC 
and 
OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
 
 
 
 Page 
 
 ARTICLE 1 -
 CERTAIN DEFINITIONS 
 
 2 
 
 1.1 
 Definitions 
 
 2 
 
 ARTICLE 2 -
 APPOINTMENT / NOMINATION RIGHTS 
 
 5 
 
 2.1 
 Director
 Appointment/Nomination Rights 
 
 5 
 
 2.2 
 Investment
 Committee and Board Approvals 
 
 7

 
 2.3 
 Termination of Rights

 
 7 
 
 ARTICLE 3 -
 TRANSACTION PROTECTIONS 
 
 7

 
 3.1 
 Future Streaming and Royalty
 Limitations 
 
 7 
 
 3.2 
 Representation Regarding
 [Redacted] 
 7
 
 
 ARTICLE 4 - [INTENTIONALLY
 DELETED] 
 
 8 
 
 4.1 
 [Intentionally Deleted] 
 
 8

 
 ARTICLE 5 - STANDSTILL 
 
 8 
 
 5.1 
 Standstill
 Agreement 
 
 8

 
 ARTICLE 6 - COOPERATION IN
 SALES OF CONSIDERATION SHARES 
 8 
 
 6.1 
 Resale
 Restrictions 
 
 8

 
 6.2 
 Broad Distribution
 Requirement 
 
 9 
 
 6.3 
 [Redacted] 
 11
 
 
 6.4 
 [Redacted] 
 11 
 
 
 ARTICLE 7 -
 RELEASE FROM OBLIGATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS 
 12
 
 
 7.1 
 Release 
 
 12 
 
 ARTICLE 8
 -MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
 
 13
 
 
 8.1 
 Expenses 
 
 13 
 
 8.2 
 Waivers
 
 
 13
 
 
 8.3 
 Notices 
 
 13 
 
 8.4 
 Entire
 Agreement; Amendments 
 
 15
 
 
 8.5 
 Conflict between Documents
 
 
 15 
 
 8.6 
 Binding
 Effect; Benefits 
 
 15
 
 
 8.7 
 Headings 
 
 15 
 
 8.8 
 Counterparts; Facsimile Signature 
 
 15
 
 
 8.9 
 Further Assurances 
 
 15 
 
 8.10 
 Governing
 Law and Jurisdiction for Disputes 
 
 16
 

- ii - 

 
 8.11
 
 Cooperation
 And Dispute Resolution 
 
 16
 
 
 8.12
 
 Severability
 
 
 17
 
 
 8.13
 
 Third
 Parties; Joint Ventures 
 
 17
 
 
 8.14
 
 Construction
 
 
 17
 

SHAREHOLDER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT 
THIS AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into as of July 31, 2017,
BETWEEN 
BETELGEUSE LLC, a limited liability company formed under
the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act ("Shareholder") 
AND: 
OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD, a corporation incorporated
under the laws of the Province of Québec, Canada (the
"Corporation"). 
RECITALS 

 
 A. 
 
 Certain Affiliates (as hereinafter defined) of
 Shareholder and the Corporation are among the parties to an acquisition
 agreement dated June 4, 2017, as amended from time to time (the
 "Acquisition Agreement") providing for transactions in which, among
 other things, the Sellers (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement) shall
 (i) directly or (ii) through the sale of shares or other equity ownership
 interests of wholly-owned or partially-owned entities, sell and transfer
 to the Buyer (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement), all of the
 Sellers' right, title and interest in certain mineral royalty interests,
 stream agreements, offtake agreements and similar assets all on the terms
 and conditions stated in the Acquisition Agreement, in exchange for
 consideration payable to the Sellers consisting of cash and common shares
 in the capital of the Corporation (the "Consideration
 Shares");
 
 
 
 
 B. 
 
 In connection with the issuance of the Consideration
 Shares, Shareholder and the Corporation are entering into a voting support
 agreement (the "Voting Support Agreement") to provide for certain
 rights and obligations of Shareholder in relation to the voting of the
 Consideration Shares; and
 
 
 
 
 C. 
 
 Shareholder and the Corporation wish to enter into this
 Agreement to provide for, among other things: (i) rights of Shareholder to
 immediately appoint, and nominate for future elections, a representative
 of Shareholder as a member of the board of directors of the Corporation;
 (ii) procedures to mitigate conflicts of interest; (iii) rights and
 obligations of Shareholder in relation to the holding and selling of the
 Consideration Shares; and (iv) standstill
obligations.

2 
AGREEMENTS 
In consideration of the mutual covenants in this Agreement,
Shareholder and the Corporation agree as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 - CERTAIN DEFINITIONS 

 
 1.1 
 
 Definitions
As used in this Agreement, the following terms, whether in
singular or plural forms, shall have the following meanings: 
"Acquisition Agreement" has the
meaning given thereto in the recitals hereto. 
"Act" means the Business
Corporations Act (Quebec), as the same may be amended or restated from time
to time. 
"Affiliate" means, with respect
to any Person, any other Person controlling, controlled by or under common
control with such Person, with "control" for such purpose meaning the
possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the
ownership of voting securities or voting interests, by contract or otherwise;
provided that, for purposes of Sections 3.1, 5.1, Article 6 (other than Section
6.2(c) thereof) and the definition of "Shareholder Ownership Percentage", an
"Affiliate" shall include only any Person controlled by Shareholder or the
Sellers and, for greater certainty, shall not include any Person controlling or
under common control with Shareholder or the Sellers. 
"Anti-Bribery Legislation" means
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (United States) and the rules and
regulations made thereunder, the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials
Act (Canada) and any other similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws or
conventions applicable to the Corporation. 
"Approved Purchaser" means
[redacted]. 
"[redacted –
definition]". 
"Back Forty Project" means the
project underlying the Stream more particularly described in Schedule F of the
Acquisition Agreement as the Back Forty Silver Stream. 
"Business Day" means any day
other than Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in New York
or Montreal are required or authorized to be closed. 
"Buyer" has the meaning given
thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 

3 
"Change of Business" means a
transaction or series of transactions as a result of which the Corporation's
resources are redirected and the nature of the Corporation's business of
acquiring and managing precious metal and other royalties, streams and a direct
or indirect interest in mining development businesses and properties and similar
interests changes, including through the acquisition of an interest in another
business which represents a material amount of the Corporation's market value,
assets or operations, or which becomes the principal enterprise of the
Corporation; provided, however, that the transition of the principal
enterprise of the Corporation to the operation of mineral projects shall
constitute a Change of Business; provided, further, that in no event will
(i) continued operatorship over current assets of the Corporation, or (ii)
increased participation in a Corporation Investee constitute a Change of
Business. 
"Change of Control" means (i)
any acquisition transaction, amalgamation, arrangement, merger or other
consolidation or combination involving the Corporation and another Person, which
results in such other Person, including Persons acting jointly or in concert
with such other Person, directly or indirectly (A) beneficially owning, or
exercising control or direction over, voting securities of the Corporation
carrying the right to cast more than fifty percent (50%) of the votes attaching
to all voting securities of the Corporation, or (B) acquiring more than fifty
percent (50%) of the assets and properties of the Corporation on a consolidated
basis,(ii) a change in more than fifty percent (50%) of the members of the
Corporation Board during any 12-month period or (iii) any other event,
transaction or series of events or transactions pursuant to which a Person
acquires possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies of the Corporation and/or its
consolidated assets, whether by contract or otherwise. 
"Closing" has the meaning given
thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Closing Date" has the meaning
given thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Code of Civil Procedure Arbitration
Provisions" has the meaning given thereto in Section 8.11(b). 
"Corporation" means Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd. 
"Corporation Board" means the
board of directors of the Corporation. 
"Corporation Investee" means any
Person in which the Corporation has publicly disclosed, as of the date hereof, a
10% or greater interest. 
"Corporation Shares" means
common shares in the capital of Corporation. 
"Consideration Shares" has the
meaning given in the recitals hereto. 
"Designated Consideration
Shares" means [redacted]. 
"Directly Transferred Assets"
has the meaning given thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 

4 
"Dispute" has the meaning given
thereto in Section 8.11(a). 
"Fund I" means Orion Mine
Finance (Master) Fund I LP, a Bermuda exempted partnership and limited
partnership. 
"Fund I-A" means Orion Mine
Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, a Bermuda exempted partnership and limited
partnership.
"Fund II" means Orion Mine
Finance Fund II LP, a Bermuda exempted partnership and limited partnership. 
"Governmental Authority" means
the government of the United States of America, Canada or any province or
territory thereof, or any other country or sovereign entity, any state,
commonwealth, territory, or possession thereof, and any political subdivision or
quasi-governmental authority of any of the same, including but not limited to
courts, tribunals, arbitrators, departments, commissions, boards, bureaus,
agencies, counties, municipalities and provinces. 
"Initial Appointee" has the
meaning given thereto in Section 2.1(a). 
"Investment Committee" has the
meaning given thereto in Section 2.2. 
"[redacted –
definition]". 
"[redacted –
definition]". 
"Mantos Project" means the
property underlying the Stream more particularly described in Schedule F of the
Acquisition Agreement as the Mantos Silver Stream. 
"MI 61-101" means Multilateral
Instrument 61-101 - Protection of Minority Security Holders in Special
Transactions. 
"Nomination" has the meaning
given thereto in Section 2.1(d). 
"Nomination Notice" has the
meaning given thereto in Section 2.1(d). 
"NYSE" means the New York Stock
Exchange. 
"[redacted –
definition]". 
"Offtake Instruments" has the
meaning given thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Person" means any natural
person, Governmental Authority, corporation, general or limited partnership,
joint venture, limited liability company, trust, association, or unincorporated
entity of any kind. 

5 
"Portfolio Assets" has the
meaning given thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Purchased Securities" has the
meaning given thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Royalty Instruments" has the
meaning given thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"SASA Project" means the
property underlying the Stream more particularly described in Schedule F of the
Acquisition Agreement as the SASA Silver Stream. 
"Sellers" has the meaning given
thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Share Block" has the meaning
given thereto in Section 6.2(a). 
"Shareholder" means Betelgeuse
LLC, a limited liability company formed under the Delaware Limited Liability
Company Act.
"Shareholder Nominee" has the
meaning given thereto in Section 2.1(a). 
"Shareholder Ownership
Percentage" means the percentage equal to the fraction, the numerator of
which is the Corporation Shares held by Shareholder and/or its Affiliates and
the denominator of which is all then outstanding Corporation Shares. 
"Strategic Purchaser" means
[redacted]. 
"Stream" has the meaning given
thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Stream Instruments" has the
meaning given thereto in the Acquisition Agreement. 
"TSX" means Toronto Stock
Exchange. 
"Voting Support Agreement" has
the meaning given in the recitals hereto. 
ARTICLE 2- APPOINTMENT / NOMINATION RIGHTS 

 
 2.1 
 
 Director Appointment/Nomination
 Rights

 
 
 (a) 
 
 The Corporation Board shall take such steps as are
 necessary to cause Oskar Lewnowski, or such other individual as
 Shareholder may designate by written notice to the Corporation not less
 than 2 Business Days prior to the Closing Date (the "Initial
 Appointee"), to be appointed to the Corporation Board, effective as of
 the Closing Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 For so long as the Shareholder Ownership Percentage
 continues to equal or exceed 10%, Shareholder shall have the right to
 nominate one individual, which may or may not be the Initial Appointee
 (the "Shareholder Nominee"), to be elected to the Corporation Board at any meeting of shareholders
of Corporation held for the purpose of electing members of the Corporation
Board.

6 

 
 
 (c) 
 
 The Initial Appointee and any other Shareholder Nominee
 shall meet the qualification requirements to serve as a director pursuant
 to the Act and the TSX and NYSE listing rules, and all other applicable
 laws, requirements of any stock exchanges on which securities of the
 Corporation are then listed, and applicable policies of the Corporation
 Board. In addition, the Initial Appointee (if an individual other than
 Oskar Lewnowski) and any other Shareholder Nominee shall be acceptable to
 the Corporation Board and the Governance and Nomination Committee of the
 Corporation Board, acting reasonably.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 The Corporation shall provide Shareholder with written
 notice (the "Nomination Notice"), not less than 60 days in advance
 of the date set for a shareholders' meeting at which directors of the
 Corporation are to be elected. The Nomination Notice will include a
 request for the identification of the Shareholder Nominee, and the
 detailed information required to be included in an information circular.
 Shareholder shall be required to, not later than 45 days in advance of the
 date set for a shareholders' meeting of which Shareholder is notified
 pursuant to this Section 2.1(d), provide the Corporation with written
 notice (the "Nomination") of the identity and particulars requested
 in the Nomination Notice. In the event that a Nomination is not received
 by the Corporation at least 45 days prior to date set for a shareholders'
 meeting at which directors of the Corporation are to be elected (for any
 reason other than failure by the Corporation to provide Shareholder with
 the Nomination Notice within the period prescribed by this Section
 2.1(d)), Shareholder shall be deemed to have nominated the Shareholder
 Nominee (including, if applicable, the Initial Appointee) then serving as
 a member of the Corporation Board.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 The Corporation shall cause the Shareholder Nominee to be
 included in the slate of nominees proposed by the Corporation for election
 by shareholders as directors at each meeting of shareholders at which
 directors are to be elected. The Corporation shall use all commercially
 reasonable efforts to cause the election of the Shareholder
 Nominee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 If the Initial Appointee or another Shareholder Nominee
 ceases to hold office as a director of the Corporation for any reason,
 other than the termination of the right set out in this Section 2.1,
 Shareholder shall be entitled to nominate an individual, qualified as set
 out in this Section 2.1, to replace such person and the Corporation shall
 promptly take all steps that may be reasonably necessary to appoint such
 individual to the Corporation Board to replace the Initial Appointee or
 other Shareholder Nominee who has ceased to hold office.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 The Initial Appointee and any other Shareholder Nominee
 who is elected to the Corporation Board shall be entitled to
 indemnification on like terms as the other members of the Corporation
 Board and shall have the benefit of the director and officer insurance
 policy in effect for the Corporation, if any, from time to
 time.

7 

 
 2.2 
 
 Investment Committee and Board
 Approvals
The Corporation Board shall form, as it
deems appropriate from time to time, an Investment Committee made up of members
of the Corporation Board which shall be, among other things, delegated the
authority from the Corporation Board to consider and approve any investments by
the Corporation with a commitment value of up to C$[redacted]. Neither
the Initial Appointee nor any other Shareholder Nominee shall be entitled to be
a member of the Investment Committee. 

 
 2.3 
 
 Termination of Rights
The nomination rights and related
rights set out in this Article 2 shall cease to be available to Shareholder and
shall be of no force or effect upon the date that the Shareholder Ownership
Percentage is less than 10%, and Shareholder shall cause the Initial Appointee
or any other Shareholder Nominee to resign from the Corporation Board forthwith
upon the Shareholder Ownership Percentage becoming less than 10%. 
ARTICLE 3- TRANSACTION PROTECTIONS 

 
 3.1 
 
 Future Streaming and Royalty
 Limitations
For a period of 3 years after the
Closing Date Shareholder covenants and agrees to not, and to cause the Sellers
and its and their respective Affiliates (whether or not an Affiliate on the date
hereof) to: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 [redacted – provision relating to prohibition against
 Shareholder providing financial assistance within a certain area];
 and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 [redacted – provision relating to internal approvals
 of certain matters].

 
 3.2 
 
 Representation Regarding
 [Redacted]
Shareholder hereby represents and
warrants to the Corporation, and acknowledges that the Corporation is relying on
such representations and warranties in entering into this Agreement, that:

8 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 [redacted – representation and warranty];
 and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 [redacted – representation and
 warranty].
ARTICLE 4- [INTENTIONALLY DELETED] 

 
 4.1 
 
 [Intentionally Deleted]
ARTICLE 5- STANDSTILL 

 
 5.1 
 
 Standstill Agreement
Subject to the provisions of Section
7.1, for a period of 3 years after the Closing Date, neither Shareholder nor any
Affiliate of Shareholder or the Sellers (regardless of whether it is an
Affiliate on the date hereof), will without the prior written consent of
Corporation:

 
 
 (a) 
 
 acquire, offer to acquire or agree to acquire, directly
 or indirectly, by purchase or otherwise, any voting securities or
 securities convertible into or exchangeable for voting securities, or
 direct or indirect rights or options to acquire any voting securities, of
 Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 directly or indirectly make, or in any way participate
 in, any solicitation of proxies to vote, or seek to advise or influence
 any other person with respect to the voting of any voting securities of
 Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 otherwise, act alone or in concert with others to seek to
 control or influence the management, directors or corporate policies of
 Corporation or to obtain additional representation on Corporation Board;
 or engage in any discussions or negotiations, enter into any agreement or
 submit any proposal or offer (with or without conditions) in connection
 with any business combination or other acquisition transaction or
 extraordinary transaction involving Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 enter into any discussions or arrangements with any third
 party with respect to any of the foregoing; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 make any public announcement of any intention to do or
 take any of the foregoing,
[redacted – provision relating to
internal approvals of certain matters].
ARTICLE 6- COOPERATION IN SALES OF CONSIDERATION SHARES

 
 6.1 
 
 Resale Restrictions

 
 
 (a) 
 
 Subject to the provisions of Section 7.1, for a period of
 6 months after the Closing Date, Shareholder shall not, and shall procure
 that any Affiliate of Shareholder who receives Consideration Shares (including pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.2(c)) shall not, directly or indirectly, offer,
transfer, sell, collateralize, grant security over, gift, assign, convey,
participate in any put or call or otherwise dispose of, or attempt to dispose
of, all or any portion of the Consideration Shares held by Shareholder or any
Affiliate of Shareholder who receives Consideration Shares (including pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.2(c)), or of any rights connected thereto or
interest therein, with or without consideration, whether voluntary or
involuntary, including by operation of law, without prior written consent of the
Corporation (which, for greater certainty, the Corporation may withhold for any
reason). 

9 

 
 
 (b) 
 
 Subject to the provisions of Section 7.1, at any time
 following the 6-month period described in Section 6.1(a) and until the
 first anniversary of the Closing Date, Shareholder shall not, and shall
 procure that any Affiliate of Shareholder who receives Consideration
 Shares (including pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.2(c)) shall not,
 directly or indirectly, offer, transfer, sell, collateralize, grant
 security over, gift, assign, convey, participate in any put or call or
 otherwise dispose of, or attempt to dispose of, all or any portion of the
 Consideration Shares held by Shareholder or any Affiliate of Shareholder
 who receives Consideration Shares (including pursuant to the provisions of
 Section 6.2(c)), or of any rights connected thereto or interest therein,
 without prior written consent of the Corporation, which shall not be
 unreasonably withheld. For purposes of this Section 6.1(b), and without
 limiting the foregoing, the withholding of consent by the Corporation to
 the sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, directly or
 indirectly, of Consideration Shares (i) representing less than
 [redacted]% of the then outstanding Corporation Shares (other than
 to a Strategic Purchaser or any single purchaser who, following completion
 of such sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition would meet the
 description of the purchasers described in Section 6.2(a)(ii)(A) or (ii)
 involuntarily or by operation of law, shall be deemed to be
 unreasonable.

 
 6.2 
 
 Broad Distribution
Requirement

 
 
 (a) 
 
 Subject to the provisions of Section 7.1, at any time
 following first anniversary of the Closing Date and until the third
 anniversary of the Closing Date, if Shareholder and/or any Affiliate of
 Shareholder who receives Consideration Shares (including pursuant to the
 provisions of Section 6.2(c)) wishes to sell or otherwise dispose of a
 number of Consideration Shares representing greater than or equal to
 [redacted]% of the then outstanding Corporation Shares (a "Share
 Block") in any 6-month period, Shareholder and/or its Affiliates shall
 do so only through:

 
 
 (i) 
 
 a broad market distribution through the facilities of any
 stock exchange upon which the Corporation Shares are traded or under a
 prospectus; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 a private transaction or series of private transactions
 as a result of which, to the knowledge of Shareholder upon reasonable
 inquiry:

10 

 
 
 (A) 
 
 

 
 
 (I) 
 
 no single purchaser together with its Affiliates and/or
 Persons acting jointly or in concert will hold or come to hold,
 Corporation Shares representing more than [redacted]% of the
 Corporation Shares outstanding as of the closing of such private
 transaction or series of transactions; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (II) 
 
 no single purchaser together with its Affiliates and/or
 Persons acting jointly or in concert will beneficially or legally own or
 come to own or have direction or control over, more than
 [redacted]% of the Corporation Shares outstanding as of the closing
 of such private transaction or series of transactions (assuming conversion
 of all securities convertible, exercisable or otherwise exchangeable into
 Corporation Shares held by the applicable purchaser(s) as of the date of
 closing of such private transaction or series of
 transactions);
provided, however, that
the restrictions set forth in this Section 6.2(a)(ii)(A) shall not apply to a
sale of a Share Block to an Approved Purchaser in a private transaction or
series of private transactions as a result of which such Approved Purchaser,
together with its Affiliates and/or Persons acting jointly or in concert with
such Approved Purchaser, will hold or come to hold Corporation Shares
representing not more than [redacted]% of the Corporation Shares
outstanding as of the closing of such private transaction or series of
transactions; and 
unless the Corporation provides its
prior written consent.
[redacted – provision relating to
notification and process where Shareholder has an intention to sell or dispose
of a Share Block]. 

11 

 
 
 (b) 
 
 The 6-month period referred to in Section 6.2(a) shall be
 a rolling 6-month period with any sale or disposition by Shareholder
 and/or its Affiliates aggregated with those completed in the 6 months
 prior to the completion of the sale or disposition in question. For
 certainty, Shareholder and/or its Affiliates may sell or otherwise dispose
 of a number of Corporation Shares held by Shareholder and/or its
 Affiliates which represents less than [redacted]% of the then
 outstanding Corporation Shares without complying with the provisions of
 this Section 6.2. Any subsequent sale or other disposition by Shareholder
 and/or its Affiliates of a number of Corporation Shares which represent
 less than [redacted]% of the then outstanding Corporation Shares
 but which, when aggregated with all Corporation Shares sold by Shareholder
 and/or its Affiliates in the 6-month period prior to such sale or
 disposition, equals or exceeds [redacted]% of the then outstanding
 Corporation Shares must comply with the provisions of this Section 6.2 for
 all such Corporation Shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article
 6, Shareholder has the right:

 
 
 (i) 
 
 at any time to sell or transfer any Consideration Shares
 held by Shareholder and/or its Affiliates to an Affiliate of Shareholder,
 provided that prior notice of such transfer is given to Corporation and
 that such Affiliate agrees to be bound by this Agreement, by way of
 instrument in writing acceptable to the Corporation, acting reasonably;
 or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 at any time following the date that is 6 months after the
 Closing Date to transfer or distribute any Consideration Shares held by
 Shareholder and/or its Affiliates to investors of Shareholder and/or its
 Affiliates; provided that no single investor of Shareholder and/or
 its Affiliates comes to hold [redacted]% or more of the Corporation
 Shares as a result of such transfer or
distribution.

 
 6.3 
 
 [Redacted]
[redacted – provision relating to
disposition of Consideration Shares]. 

 
 6.4 
 
 [Redacted]
[redacted – provision relating to
disposition of Consideration Shares]. 

12 
ARTICLE 7- RELEASE FROM OBLIGATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS 

 
 7.1 
 
 Release
The obligations, covenants and other
restrictions imposed upon Shareholder and its Affiliates by Sections 5.1, 6.1,
6.2 and Error! Reference source not found. shall be of no further force
or effect, and Shareholder and its Affiliates shall automatically be released
from such obligations, covenants and other restrictions in the event that:

 
 
 (a) 
 
 there is a Change of Control;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 there is a Change of Business;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 the Corporation makes an assignment for the benefit of
 its creditors;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 a receiver, liquidator or trustee shall be appointed for
 the Corporation or the Corporation shall be adjudicated bankrupt or
 insolvent, or any petition for bankruptcy, reorganization or arrangement
 pursuant to bankruptcy or insolvency legislation applicable to the
 Corporation shall be filed by or against, consented to, or acquiesced in
 by, the Corporation, or any proceeding for the dissolution or liquidation
 of the Corporation shall be instituted;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 the Corporation is in material breach of any of its
 obligations under Sections 2.1 or 6.4 of this Agreement or any of its
 obligations under the Acquisition Agreement that survive the
 Closing;

13 

 
 
 (f) 
 
 the Corporation is at any time found to be in material
 breach of any Anti-Bribery Legislation; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 the Corporation is at any time in material breach or
 default of any securities laws, rules or regulations (including the rules
 of any stock exchange) applicable to the
Corporation,
[redacted – provision relating to
cure period]. 
ARTICLE 8-MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

 
 8.1 
 
 Expenses
Each of the parties shall bear its own
costs and expenses arising from the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.

 
 8.2 
 
 Waivers
No action taken pursuant to this
Agreement, including any investigation by or on behalf of any party hereto,
shall be deemed to constitute a waiver by the party taking the action of
compliance with any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in
this Agreement. The waiver by any party hereto of any condition or of a breach
of another provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a
waiver of any other condition or subsequent breach. The waiver by any party of
any of the conditions precedent to its obligations under this Agreement shall
not preclude it from seeking redress for breach of this Agreement other than
with respect to the condition so waived. 

 
 8.3 
 
 Notices
All notices, requests, demands,
applications, waivers, services of process, and other communications which are
required to be or may be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and
shall be deemed to have been duly given if sent by electronic mail or facsimile
transmission or delivered by courier or mailed, certified first class mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the parties hereto at the
following addresses: 

14 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 To Shareholder:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 c/o Estera Services (Bermuda) Limited 
 
 
 
 Canon's Court
 
 
 
 22 Victoria Street
 
 
 
 
 PO Box HM 1179 
 
 
 
 Hamilton HM EX, Bermuda
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Attention: Limor Nissan 
 
 
 
 Facsimile: (212) 596-3489
 
 
 
 
 Email: notices@orionresourcepartners.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 And with a copy (which shall not constitute notice)
 to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP
 
 
 
 333 Bay Street, Suite 2400
 
 
 
 
 Toronto, Ontario M5H 2T6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Attention: Nancy Eastman 
 
 
 
 Facsimile: 416 364 7813 
 
 
 
 Email: neastman@fasken.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 To the Corporation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
 
 
 
 
 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300
 
 
 
 
 Montreal, Québec, Canada 
 
 
 
 H3B 2S2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Attention: President 
 
 
 
 Facsimile: 514-940-0669
 
 
 
 
 Email: corporatesecretary@osiskogr.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With a copy (which shall not constitute notice)
 to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bennett Jones LLP
 
 
 
 
 3400, One First Canadian Place 
 
 
 
 Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
 
 
 
 M5X 1A4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Attention: Sander Grieve 
 
 
 
 Facsimile: 416 863 1716
 
 
 
 
 Email:
grieves@bennettjones.com
or to such other address as any party
shall have furnished to the other by notice given in accordance with this
Section. Such notice shall be effective, (i) if delivered in person or by
courier, upon actual receipt by the intended recipient, or (ii) if sent by
electronic mail or facsimile transmission, upon receipt, or (iii) if mailed,
upon the date of first attempted delivery.

15 

 
 8.4 
 
 Entire Agreement; Amendments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This Agreement, together with the Voting Support
 Agreement and the Acquisition Agreement, embodies the entire agreement
 between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and
 supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, with
 respect thereto. This Agreement may not be modified orally, but only by an
 agreement in writing signed by the party or parties against whom any
 waiver, change, amendment, modification, or discharge may be sought to be
 enforced.
 
 
 
 
 8.5 
 
 Conflict between Documents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unless otherwise specifically stated, the provision of
 this Agreement shall govern and prevail in the event of any inconsistency
 or conflict between the terms hereof and of any assignment agreements or
 other document or instrument executed or delivered by any party in
 connection with the transactions contemplated hereunder.
 
 
 
 
 8.6 
 
 Binding Effect; Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and will be
 binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and
 permitted assigns. Neither the Corporation nor Shareholder shall assign
 this Agreement or delegate any of its duties hereunder to any other Person
 without the prior written consent of the other.
 
 
 
 
 8.7 
 
 Headings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The section and other headings in this Agreement are for
 reference purposes only and will not affect the meaning of interpretation
 of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 8.8 
 
 Counterparts; Facsimile Signature
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This Agreement may be executed by electronic mail or
 facsimile in any number of counterparts, each of which, when executed,
 shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together will be deemed
 to be one and the same instrument.
 
 
 
 
 8.9 
 
 Further Assurances
 
 
 
 
 
 
 From and after the closing of the transactions described
 in the Acquisition Agreement, each of the Corporation and Shareholder
 shall do all such things and provide all such reasonable assurances as may
 be required to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
 and each such party shall provide such further documents or instruments
 required by any other party as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to
 effect the purpose of this Agreement and carry out its
 provisions.

16 

 
 8.10 
 
 Governing Law and Jurisdiction for
 Disputes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The validity, performance, and enforcement of this
 Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Province of Québec, without
 giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law of such
 Province.
 
 
 
 
 8.11 
 
 Cooperation And Dispute
 Resolution

 
 
 (a) 
 
 Consultation and Negotiation. In the event of any
 dispute, claim, question or disagreement (each a "Dispute") arising
 out of or relating to this Agreement, the parties shall use all reasonable
 endeavours to settle such Dispute. To this effect, they shall consult and
 negotiate with each other in good faith and attempt to reach a just and
 equitable solution to the Dispute within a period of thirty (30) days from
 the matter in dispute being raised by a party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Single Arbitrator. If the parties cannot resolve
 the Dispute within the thirty (30) days period, a party may refer the
 Dispute to arbitration pursuant to the Book VII (section 940 and
 following) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Québec) (the "Code of
 Civil Procedure Arbitration Provisions"). The arbitration shall be
 held in the City of Montreal and determined by a single arbitrator. The
 arbitrator shall be qualified by experience and skill in the area(s)
 covered by the Dispute and, unless both parties agree in writing following
 full disclosure of any facts giving rise to a possible conflict, free from
 legal or business conflicts of interest in relation to the
 parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Application to Superior Court. If the parties do
 not agree upon the selection of the arbitrator within fifteen (15) days
 following the expiration of the thirty-day period referred to in Section
 8.11(c), either party may apply to a judge of the Superior Court of
 Justice of Québec for the appointment of the arbitrator. Unless the
 parties agree to share the costs of the arbitration, the arbitrator shall
 determine what portion of the costs and expenses incurred in such
 proceeding shall be borne by each party participating in the arbitration.
 The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on each of the
 parties and shall not be subject to any appeal on any ground, including an
 error of law. The arbitration shall be governed by the laws of Québec and
 the laws of Canada applicable therein, and judgement upon the award
 rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having
 jurisdiction. The parties covenant that they shall conduct all aspects of
 such arbitration having regard at all times to expediting the final
 resolution of such arbitration.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Injunctions, etc. The provisions of this Agreement
 providing for the resolution of Disputes shall not operate to prevent
 recourse to the court by any party as permitted by the Code of Civil
 Procedure Arbitration Provisions with respect to injunctions or whenever
 enforcement of an arbitration award reasonably requires access to any
 remedy which an arbitrator has no power to award or
 enforce.

17 

 
 8.12 
 
 Severability
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Any term or provision of this Agreement which is invalid
 or unenforceable shall be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or
 unenforceability without rendering invalid or unenforceable the remaining
 rights of the Person intended to be benefited by such provision or any
 other provisions of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 8.13 
 
 Third Parties; Joint Ventures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This Agreement constitutes an agreement solely among the
 parties hereto, and, except as otherwise provided herein, is not intended
 to and will not confer any rights, remedies, obligations, or liabilities,
 legal or equitable, including any right of employment, on any Person other
 than the parties hereto and their respective successors, or assigns, or
 otherwise constitute any Person a third party beneficiary under or by
 reason of this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied,
 is intended to or shall constitute the parties hereto partners or
 participants in a joint venture.
 
 
 
 
 8.14 
 
 Construction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This Agreement has been negotiated by the Corporation and
 Shareholder and their respective legal counsel, and legal or equitable
 principles that might require the construction of this Agreement or any
 provision of this Agreement against the party drafting this Agreement
 shall not apply in any interpretation of this
Agreement.
[Remainder of page intentionally left blank. Signature
page follows.] 

18 
Shareholder and the Corporation have executed this Agreement as
of the date first written above. 

 
 BETELGEUSE LLC, by its
 managing 
 
 member ORION
 MINE FINANCE 
 
 MANAGEMENT I LIMITED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 By: 
 (signed) "Sarah Demerling" 
 
 
 Name: Sarah Demerling 
 
 
 Title: Authorized Signatory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
 
 
 
 
 By: 
 (signed) "Bryan A. Coates" 
 
 
 Name: Bryan A. Coates 
 
 
 Title: President 
 
 
 
 
 By: 
 (signed) "Elif Lévesque" 
 
 
 Name: Elif Lévesque 
 
 
 Title: Chief Financial Officer and Vice 
 
 
 President, Finance 
[Signature Page – Shareholder Participation Agreement]