EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
and 
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR 
for the 
SPECIAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF OSISKO GOLD
ROYALTIES LTD 
to be held on 
July 31, 2017 
DATED AS OF JUNE 29, 2017 

 
 
 
 VOTE YOUR SHARES TODAY 
 
 These materials are important and require your immediate
 attention. Your vote is important regardless of the number of
 shares you own. Whether or not you are able to attend, we urge you to vote
 using your enclosed proxy or voting instruction form. 
 
 
 
 
 If you have any questions or require assistance with
 voting, please contact our proxy solicitation agent: 
 
 
 
 
 Laurel Hill Advisory Group 
 
 
 
 
 North American Toll-Free Number: 1-877-452-7184 
 
 Collect Calls Outside North America: 416-304-0211
 
 
 Email: assistance@laurelhill.com

 
June 29, 2017 
Dear Fellow Shareholder: 
Over the past 36 months, Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
("Osisko") has been working hard to establish itself as a leading
intermediate royalty company. On June 5, 2017, Osisko proudly announced that it
had entered into a transformational transaction with the Orion Parties (as
defined in the accompanying management information circular) to acquire a
high-quality precious metals portfolio of assets consisting of 74 royalties,
streams and precious metal offtakes (the "Acquired Assets") for total
consideration of C$1.125 billion (the "Acquisition"), thereby creating a
growth-oriented, world-class royalty company. 
Under the terms of the Acquisition, the Orion Parties will
receive, in return for the Acquired Assets, C$675 million in cash and C$450
million in newly-issued common shares of Osisko (being 30,906,594 common
shares). To fund a portion of the cash component, Osisko has entered into
agreements with two of its Québec-based shareholders, CDP Investissements Inc.,
an affiliate of Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec ("Caisse") and
Fonds F.T.Q. de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) ("Fonds
F.T.Q."), whereby the Caisse and the Fonds F.T.Q. will subscribe for a
concurrent private placement of 18,887,363 common shares of Osisko, for total
gross proceeds of C$275 million (C$200 million from the Caisse and C$75 million
from the Fonds F.T.Q.) (the "Private Placement"). The Private Placement
of common shares is subject to a 7% capital commitment fee payable partially in
common shares (2% or 385,457 common shares) and partially in cash (5% or C$13.75
million). 
On Monday, July 31, 2017, Osisko will be seeking your approval
for the issuance of a total of 50,179,414 common shares of Osisko to the Orion
Parties and to the Caisse and the Fonds F.T.Q. 
The Board of Directors of Osisko has unanimously approved the
Acquisition given that it: 

 
 
 i. 
 
 is immediately accretive to our cash flow per
 share;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ii. 
 
 provides industry-leading production and cash flow growth
 over the next 5 years;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 iii. 
 
 adds three cornerstone assets/streams from the Renard,
 Mantos Blancos and Brucejack mines to complement our Canadian Malartic and
 Éléonore world-class royalties;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 iv. 
 
 maintains our precious metals focus;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 v. 
 
 keeps our portfolio Americas-focused; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 vi. 
 
 expands and diversifies our portfolio of
 assets.
The accompanying management information circular of Osisko
provides you with background information on the resolutions relating to the
issuances of Osisko common shares to complete the Acquisition and Private
Placement. 
Your participation is important to us. In the event you cannot
attend the special meeting, we urge you to express your support by voting on the
various proposals that we will be putting forward at our special meeting of
shareholders, using your proxy in advance of the special meeting. 
We are also pleased to respond to your comments or queries,
which can be forwarded at any time to me directly
(Chair-Board@osiskogr.com) or to our investor relations group
(info@osiskogr.com). 

We thank you for your ongoing support and confidence as we
continue to build shareholder value at Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. 
Respectfully, 
(signed) "Sean Roosen" 
Sean RoosenChair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer

 
NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETING OF OSISKO SHAREHOLDERS 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a special meeting (the
"Meeting") of shareholders ("Osisko Shareholders") of Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd ("Osisko") will be held at 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) on
Monday, July 31, 2017 at the offices of Lavery, de Billy, L.L.P. located
at 1 Place Ville Marie, Suite 4000, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 4M4, for the
following purposes: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 to consider and, if deemed advisable, to pass, with or
 without variation, an ordinary resolution (the "Share Issuance
 Resolution"), the text of which is set out in Schedule "A" –
 "Resolutions to be Approved at the Meeting" to the accompanying
 management information circular dated June 29, 2017 (the
 "Circular"), to:

 
 
 (i) 
 
 approve the issuance of 50,179,414 common shares in the
 capital of Osisko ("Osisko Shares"), of
which:

 
 
 (x) 
 
 30,906,594 Osisko Shares are to be issued to the Orion
 Parties (as defined herein) as partial consideration (the "Share
 Consideration") for the acquisition by Osisko of all of the Orion
 Parties' right, title and interest in certain mineral royalty interests,
 stream agreements, offtake agreements and similar assets, directly or
 through the acquisition of shares or other equity ownership interests of
 entities owned by the Orion Parties (the "Acquisition") pursuant to
 an Acquisition Agreement (the "Acquisition Agreement"), dated June
 4, 2017 among Osisko and Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP, Orion Mine
 Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion Co- Investments I (Stream) LLC, Orion
 Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited
 and Lynx Metals Limited (collectively, the "Orion
 Parties");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (y) 
 
 19,272,820 Osisko Shares are to be issued in connection
 with the Private Placement (as defined herein), consisting of (A)
 18,887,363 Osisko Shares to be issued at a price of C$14.56 per Osisko
 Share to CDP Investissements Inc., an affiliate of the Caisse de dépôt et
 placement du Québec (C$200 million or 13,736,264 Osisko Shares) and the
 Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) (C$75 million or
 5,151,099 Osisko Shares), for aggregate gross proceeds of C$275 million
 (the "Private Placement") to be used to partially fund the cash
 consideration of C$675 million payable as partial consideration for the
 Acquisition, subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the
 Acquisition Agreement, and (B) 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued as
 partial payment (two percent) of the seven percent capital commitment fee
 payable to CDP Investissements Inc. and the Fonds de solidarité des
 travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) in connection with the Private Placement;
 and

 
 
 (ii) 
 
 approve the entering into of the Voting Agreement (as
 defined in the Circular),
all of which is more particularly
described in the Circular; and 

 
 
 (b) 
 
 to transact such other business as may properly be
 brought before the Meeting or any adjournment
thereof.
Specific details of the matters proposed to be put before the
Meeting are set forth in the Circular that accompanies this Notice of Meeting.
If the Share Issuance Resolution is not approved by the Disinterested Osisko
Shareholders (as defined in the Circular) at the Meeting, then the Acquisition
and Private Placement cannot be completed. Even if the Share Issuance
Resolution is approved at the Meeting, there is no guarantee that the
Acquisition will be completed. If the Acquisition is not completed, then the
Osisko Shares referred to in the Share Issuance Resolution will not be issued.

At the Meeting, Disinterested Osisko Shareholders will be asked
to consider, and if deemed advisable, to pass the Share Issuance Resolution
approving (i) the issuance of up to 50,179,414 Osisko Shares, and (ii) the
entering into of the Voting Agreement with the Designated Orion Shareholders (as
defined in the Circular). 
- 1 - 

The board of directors of Osisko unanimously recommends that
Osisko Shareholders vote in favour of the Share Issuance Resolution. It is a
condition to the completion of the Acquisition that the Share Issuance
Resolution be approved at the Meeting. 
The record date for the determination of Osisko Shareholders
entitled to receive notice of and to vote at the Meeting is the close of
business on June 19, 2017 (the "Record Date"). Only Osisko Shareholders
whose names have been entered in the register of Osisko Shareholders as of the
close of business on the Record Date are entitled to receive notice of, and to
vote at, the Meeting. Each Osisko Share outstanding on the Record Date will
entitle the holder thereof to one vote at the Meeting on any matter to come
before the Meeting. The Share Issuance Resolution must be approved by a majority
of the votes cast by the Disinterested Osisko Shareholders present in person or
by proxy at the Meeting. 
An Osisko Shareholder may attend the Meeting in person or
may be represented by proxy. Osisko Shareholders who are unable to attend the
Meeting or any adjournment thereof in person are requested to date, sign and
return the accompanying form of proxy (the "Proxy") printed on yellow paper for
use at the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. To be effective, the Proxy must
be received by our transfer agent, CST Trust Company, by mail: P.O. Box 721,
Agincourt, Ontario, Canada, M1S 0A1; by email:
proxy@canstockta.com; or by fax: 1-866-781-3111 (North
American Toll Free) or 416-368-2502 (Outside North America) not later than 9:00
a.m. (Montréal time) on July 27, 2017 or 48 hours (other than a Saturday, Sunday
or holiday) prior to the time to which the Meeting may be adjourned.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Chair of the Meeting has the discretion to
accept proxies received after such deadline. 
If an Osisko Shareholder receives more than one Proxy because
such holders' Osisko Shares are registered in different names or addresses, then
each Proxy should be completed and returned. 
If you are a non-registered holder of Osisko Shares and have
received these materials through your broker, custodian, nominee or other
intermediary, please complete and return the Proxy or voting instruction form
provided to you by your broker, custodian, nominee or other intermediary in
accordance with the instructions provided therein. 
The Proxy confers discretionary authority with respect to: (i)
amendments or variations to the matters of business to be considered at the
Meeting; and (ii) other matters that may properly come before the Meeting. As of
the date hereof, management of Osisko knows of no amendments, variations or
other matters to come before the Meeting other than the matters set forth in
this Notice of Meeting. Osisko Shareholders who are planning on returning the
accompanying Proxy are encouraged to review the Circular carefully before
submitting their Proxy. It is the intention of the persons named in the enclosed
Proxy, if not expressly directed to the contrary in such Proxy, to vote in
favour of the Share Issuance Resolution. 
If you have any questions or require any assistance in
completing your Proxy or voting instruction form, please contact Laurel Hill
Advisory Group, the proxy solicitation agent, by telephone at: 1-877-452-7184
(North American toll free) or 416-304-0211 (collect outside North America); or
by email at: assistance@laurelhill.com. 
DATED at Montréal, Québec this 29th day of June,
2017. 

 
 
 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (signed) "Sean Roosen" 
 
 
 Sean Roosen 
 
 
 Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
 Executive 
 
 
 Officer of Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
 
- 2 - 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
 QUESTIONS
 AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE ACQUISITION 
 1
 
 
 MANAGEMENT
 INFORMATION CIRCULAR 
 6
 
 
 CAUTIONARY
 STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 
 6
 
 
 CAUTIONARY
 STATEMENT REGARDING THIRD PARTY INFORMATION 
 7
 
 
 NON-IFRS
 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
 7
 
 
 CAUTIONARY
 NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS IN THE UNITED STATES 
 8
 
 
 GENERAL
 MATTERS 
 9
 
 
 Reporting
 Currencies and Accounting Principles 
 9
 
 
 Exchange
 Rate Data 
 9
 
 
 Information
 Contained in this Circular 
 9
 
 
 Information
 Contained in this Circular Regarding the Orion Parties 
 10
 
 
 SUMMARY
 OF CIRCULAR 
 11
 
 
 Date,
 Time and Place of Meeting 
 11
 
 
 Purpose
 of the Meeting 
 11
 
 
 Osisko
 Gold Royalties Ltd 
 11
 
 
 The
 Orion Parties 
 12
 
 
 The
 Acquisition 
 13
 
 
 Opinion
 of Maxit Capital 
 15
 
 
 Effects
 of the Acquisition 
 16
 
 
 Osisko
 Shareholder Approval 
 17
 
 
 The
 Acquisition Agreement 
 17
 
 
 The
 Shareholder Participation Agreement 
 17
 
 
 The
 Voting Agreement 
 18
 
 
 The
 Subscription Agreements 
 18
 
 
 Investor
 Rights Agreement 
 19
 
 
 Canadian
 Securities Laws 
 19
 
 
 U.S.
 Securities Laws 
 19
 
 
 Timing
 to Complete the Acquisition and Private Placement 
 20
 
 
 Unaudited
 Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Information 
 20
 
 
 Risk
 Factors 
 20
 
 
 GENERAL
 PROXY INFORMATION 
 21
 
 
 Date,
 Time and Place of Meeting 
 21
 
 
 Purpose
 of the Meeting 
 21
 
 
 Osisko
 Shareholders Entitled to Vote 
 21
 
 
 Voting
 By Registered Osisko Shareholders 
 22
 
 
 Voting
 By Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders 
 24
 
 
 Solicitation
 of Proxies 
 25
 
 
 THE
 ACQUISITION 
 25
 
 
 Overview
 
 25
 
 
 Background
 to the Acquisition 
 26
 
 
 Recommendation
 of the Board 
 28
 
 
 Reasons
 for the Recommendation of the Board 
 28
 
 
 Opinion
 of Maxit Capital 
 29
 
 
 Effects
 of the Acquisition 
 30
 
 
 Shareholder
 and Regulatory Approvals 
 31
 
 
 THE
 ACQUISITION AGREEMENT 
 33
 
 
 The
 Acquisition and the Acquisition Consideration 
 33
 
 
 Representations
 and Warranties 
 33
 
 
 Covenants
 
 34
 
- i - 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
 Conditions
 Precedent to the Acquisition Agreement 
 35
 
 
 Termination
 
 37
 
 
 Indemnification
 
 37
 
 
 THE
 SHAREHOLDER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT 
 38
 
 
 THE
 VOTING AGREEMENT 
 40
 
 
 THE
 SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENTS 
 40
 
 
 Representations
 and Warranties 
 41
 
 
 Covenants
 
 41
 
 
 Lock-Up
 
 41
 
 
 Private
 Placement Closing 
 41
 
 
 Listing
 
 42
 
 
 Investor
 Rights Agreement 
 42
 
 
 SECURITIES
 LAW MATTERS 
 42
 
 
 Canadian
 Securities Laws 
 42
 
 
 U.S.
 Securities Laws 
 43
 
 
 RISK
 FACTORS 
 43
 
 
 Risks
 Relating to the Acquisition 
 43
 
 
 Risks
 Related to the Resulting Company 
 44
 
 
 Risk
 Factors Related to the Operations of Osisko 
 47
 
 
 Risk
 Factors Related to the Acquired Assets 
 47
 
 
 INFORMATION
 CONCERNING OSISKO 
 52
 
 
 INFORMATION
 CONCERNING THE ACQUIRED ASSETS 
 52
 
 
 INFORMATION
 CONCERNING THE RESULTING COMPANY 
 52
 
 
 INTEREST
 OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS OF OSISKO IN THE ACQUISITION 
 52
 
 
 INTEREST
 OF INFORMED PERSONS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS 
 52
 
 
 MANAGEMENT
 CONTRACTS 
 52
 
 
 AUDITORS
 
 52
 
 
 LEGAL
 MATTERS 
 52
 
 
 ADDITIONAL
 INFORMATION 
 53
 
 
 OTHER
 MATTERS 
 53
 
 
 OSISKO
 BOARD APPROVAL 
 53
 
 
 GLOSSARY
 OF TERMS 
 54
 
 
 CONSENT
 OF MAXIT CAPITAL LP 
 68
 
 
 Schedule "A" Resolutions to be Approved at
 the Meeting 
 
 
 Schedule "B" Fairness Opinion of Maxit Capital 
 
 
 Schedule "C" Information Concerning Osisko
 as of June 28, 2017 
 
 
 Schedule "D" Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as
 of June 28, 2017 
 
 
 Schedule "E" Information Concerning the
 Resulting Company as of June 28, 2017 
 
 
 Schedule "F" Financial Statements and Management's
 Discussion and Analysis of the Acquired Assets 
 
 
 Schedule "G" Unaudited Pro Forma
 Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Osisko 
 
 
- ii - 

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE ACQUISITION 
The following is a summary of certain information contained
in or incorporated by reference into this Circular, together with some of the
questions that you, as an Osisko Shareholder, may have and answers to those
questions. You are urged to read the remainder of this Circular and the enclosed
Proxy carefully, because the information contained below is of a summary nature,
and is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information contained
elsewhere in or incorporated by reference into this Circular, the Proxy and the
schedules attached to this Circular, all of which are important and should be
reviewed carefully. Capitalized terms in this summary have the meanings set out
under the heading "Glossary of Terms". 

 
 
 
 
 
 This Circular is provided to you in
 connection with the solicitation by or on behalf of management of Osisko
 of Proxies to be used at the Meeting, which is to be held at the
 offices of Lavery, de Billy, L.L.P. located at 1 Place Ville Marie,
 Suite 4000, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 4M4, on Monday, July
 31, 2017, at 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) for the purposes
 indicated in the accompanying Notice of Meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your vote is very important. We encourage
 you to exercise your right to vote by proxy if: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1) 
 
 
 you cannot attend the Meeting; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2) 
 
 
 you plan to attend the Meeting but prefer the convenience of voting in
 advance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The questions and answers below give
 general guidance for voting your Osisko Shares and related matters.
 Unless otherwise noted, all answers relate to both Registered
 Osisko Shareholders and Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders. If you
 have any questions, please feel free to contact Laurel Hill Advisory
 Group, the Proxy Solicitation Agent, by telephone at:
 1-877-452-7184 (North American toll free) or 416-304-0211 (collect
 outside North America), or by email at: assistance@laurelhill.com. 
 

 
Does the Board support the Acquisition?

Yes. The Board has unanimously determined (i) that the
Acquisition is in the best interests of Osisko and the Osisko Shareholders, (ii)
that Osisko should complete the Acquisition, and (iii) to recommend that Osisko
Shareholders vote FOR the Share Issuance Resolution. 
In making its recommendation, the Board considered a number of
factors as described in this Circular under the heading "The Acquisition –
Reasons for the Recommendation of the Board", including the opinion of its
financial advisor, Maxit Capital, which determined that, subject to the
assumptions, limitations and qualifications contained in the written opinion of
Maxit Capital provided to the Board in connection with the Acquisition, the
Purchase Price to be paid by Osisko pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement is
fair, from a financial point of view, to Osisko as of the date of the Maxit
Fairness Opinion. See "The Acquisition – Opinion of Maxit Capital" in
this Circular, as well as the full text of the Maxit Fairness Opinion attached
hereto as Schedule "B" – "Fairness Opinion of Maxit Capital" to this
Circular. You are encouraged to read the Maxit Fairness Opinion carefully and in
its entirety. See also "The Acquisition – Background to the Acquisition",
"The Acquisition – Recommendation of the Board" and "The Acquisition –
Reasons for the Recommendation of the Board". 
Am I entitled to vote? 
You are entitled to vote if (i) you were a holder of Osisko
Shares as of the close of business on June 19, 2017, and (ii) are considered to
be a Disinterested Osisko Shareholder. Each Osisko Share that is (i) outstanding
on the Record Date, and (ii) held by a Disinterested Osisko Shareholder, carries
the right to one vote per Osisko Share in respect of Share Issuance Resolution.
Holders of other securities of Osisko are not entitled to vote in respect of
such other securities of Osisko on any matters at the Meeting. 
1 

What am I voting on? 
If you are a holder of Osisko Shares, you are voting to approve
the Share Issuance Resolution, which provides for (i) the issuance by Osisko of
50,179,414 Osisko Shares in connection with the Acquisition in satisfaction of
the Share Consideration and pursuant to the Private Placement, and (ii) the
entering into of the Voting Agreement. 
Approval of the Share Issuance Resolution is required (i) in
accordance with Section 611(c) of the TSX Company Manual, as the number of
Osisko Shares issued or issuable in payment of the Share Consideration and
pursuant to the Private Placement exceeds 25% of the number of Osisko Shares
outstanding, on a non-diluted basis, as of the date of this Circular, and (ii)
as the Board and management may have a potential interest in, or derive a
potential benefit from, the Voting Agreement. 
If the Acquisition is not completed, then the Osisko Shares
referred to in the Share Issuance Resolution will not be issued even if the
Share Issuance Resolution is approved at the Meeting. 
What if amendments are made to these matters or if other
business matters are brought before the Meeting? 
If you are a Registered Osisko Shareholder and attend the
Meeting in person, you may vote on the business matters as you choose. 
If you have completed and returned a Proxy, the persons named
in the Proxy will have discretionary authority to vote on amendments or
variations to the business matters identified in the accompanying Notice of
Meeting, and on other matters that may properly come before the Meeting. As of
the date of this Circular, management of Osisko is not aware of any amendments,
variations or additional matters to come before the Meeting. 
Am I a Registered Osisko Shareholder? 
You are a Registered Osisko Shareholder if you hold any Osisko
Shares in your own name, as recorded in the register of Osisko Shares maintained
by CST Trust Company. 
Am I a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder (also commonly
referred to as a beneficial shareholder)? 
You are a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder if your Osisko
Shares are held in an account in the name of a nominee (bank, trust company,
securities broker or other nominee). There are two kinds of Non-Registered
Osisko Shareholders: (i) those who object to their names being made known to the
issuers of securities which they own, known as objecting beneficial owners or
"OBOs"; and (ii) those who do not object to their names being made known to the
issuers of securities which they own, known as non-objecting beneficial owners
or "NOBOs". 
How do I vote if I am a Registered Osisko
Shareholder? 
If you are a Registered Osisko Shareholder, you can vote your
Osisko Shares: (i) by voting in person at the Meeting; or (ii) by signing and
returning the enclosed Proxy appointing the named persons or some other person
you choose, who need not be an Osisko Shareholder, to represent you as
proxyholder and vote your Osisko Shares at the Meeting. 
How do I vote if I am a Non-Registered Osisko
Shareholder? 
If you are a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder, you will have
received voting instructions from your nominee or intermediary. Typically,
intermediaries will use a service company to forward such materials to
Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders. The majority of intermediaries now delegate
responsibility for obtaining instructions from clients to Broadridge. Osisko may
utilize the Broadridge QuickVote™ service to assist Non-Registered Osisko
Shareholders that are NOBOs with voting their Osisko Shares. NOBOs may be
contacted by Laurel Hill Advisory Group to conveniently obtain a vote directly
over the telephone at 1-877-452-7184 (North American toll free) or 416-304-0211
(collect outside North America). 
2 

If I am a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder, can I vote
in person at the Meeting? 
Yes. To vote in person at the Meeting, print your own name in
the space provided on the Proxy or the voting instruction form sent to you by
your nominee or intermediary and return it by following the instructions
included. In doing so you are instructing your nominee or intermediary to
appoint you as a proxyholder. Please register with Osisko's transfer agent, CST
Trust Company, when you arrive at the Meeting. As we have no access to the names
of the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders, if you attend the Meeting without
following this procedure, we will have no record of your shareholdings or
entitlement to vote. 
How do I vote if I am a both a Registered Osisko
Shareholder and a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder? 
Should you hold some Osisko Shares as a Registered Osisko
Shareholder and other Osisko Shares as a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder, you
will have to use both voting methods described above. 
Who is soliciting my votes? 
The management of Osisko is soliciting your votes. 
We solicit votes primarily by mail of Proxy forms and voting
instruction forms. Osisko employees or agents might also use telephone or other
methods of contact. In addition, we have engaged Laurel Hill Advisory Group to
act as the Proxy Solicitation Agent with respect to the matters to be considered
at the Meeting. Osisko will bear the costs of solicitation of Osisko
Shareholders. 
Who votes my Osisko Shares and how will they be voted if
I return a proxy or voting instruction form? 
By properly completing and returning a Proxy, you are
authorizing the persons named in that form to attend the Meeting and to vote
your Osisko Shares. You can use the enclosed Proxy, or any other proper proxy or
voting instruction form, to appoint your proxyholder. 
The Osisko Shares represented by your proxy must be voted as
you instruct in the Proxy or voting instruction form. If you properly complete
and return your Proxy but do not specify how you wish the votes cast, your
proxyholder will vote your Osisko Shares as they see fit. 
NOTE TO SHAREHOLDERS: Unless you provide contrary
instructions, Osisko Shares represented by proxies that management receives will
be voted FOR the Share Issuance Resolution. 
Can I appoint someone other than those named in the
enclosed Proxy or voting instruction form to vote my Osisko
Shares? 
Yes. You have the right to appoint another person of your
choice. They do not need to be an Osisko Shareholder to attend and act on your
behalf at the Meeting. To appoint someone who is not named in the enclosed Proxy
or voting instruction form, strike out those printed names appearing on the
Proxy and voting instruction form and print in the space provided the name of
the person you choose. 
NOTE TO SHAREHOLDERS: It is important for you to ensure
that any other person you appoint will attend the Meeting and know you have
appointed them. On arriving at the Meeting, proxyholders must present themselves
to a representative of CST Trust Company. 
3 

Can I revoke a Proxy or voting instruction?

Yes. If you are a Registered Osisko Shareholder and have
returned a Proxy, you may revoke it by: 

 
 
 1) 
 
 completing and signing another Proxy with a later date
 and delivering it to CST Trust Company, by mail or courier at 2001
 Robert-Bourassa Blvd., Suite 1600, Montréal, Québec, H3A 2A6, before: (a)
 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) on July 27, 2017; or (b) if the Meeting is
 adjourned, 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) before the
 day to which the Meeting is adjourned;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2) 
 
 delivering a written statement revoking the original
 Proxy or voting instruction, signed by you or your authorized
 representative, to:

 
 
 (a) 
 
 André Le Bel, Vice President, Legal Affairs and Corporate
 Secretary of Osisko, by mail or courier at 1100 Avenue des
 Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 2S2,
 before the close of business on July 28, 2017 or, if the Meeting is
 adjourned, up to the close of business on the last Business Day before the
 day to which the Meeting is adjourned; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 the Chair of the Meeting before the Meeting begins or, if
 the Meeting is adjourned, before the adjourned Meeting begins;
 or

 
 
 3) 
 
 any other manner permitted by
law.
If you are a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder, contact your
nominee. 
How many Osisko Shares are entitled to be
voted? 
As at June 19, 2017, the Record Date, 106,735,091 Osisko Shares
were issued and outstanding. Each Osisko Share outstanding on the Record Date
carries the right to one vote, provided, however, that the 1,414,995 Osisko
Shares (representing approximately 1.3% of the issued and outstanding Osisko
Shares as at the Record Date) held by Interested Osisko Shareholders (being the
directors and executive officers of Osisko) are not entitled to vote on the
Share Issuance Resolution. 
To the knowledge of the directors and executive officers of
Osisko and according to the latest data available, at the date hereof, there is
only one Osisko Shareholder owning, directly or indirectly, or exercising
control or direction over more than 10% of the voting rights attached to all
outstanding Osisko Shares. 

 
 Name of Osisko Shareholder 
 Number of Osisko Shares 
 Percentage of Outstanding
 Osisko Shares 
 
 Van Eck Associates Corporation(1) 
 18,557,593(1) 
 17.4%(1)

____________________
Note: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Based on the alternative monthly report filed by Van Eck
 Associates Corporation on June 7, 2017, using figures as of May 31, 2017.
 Van Eck Associates Corporation relied on aggregation relief provided by
 Section 5.1 of Part 5 of National Instrument 62-103 – The Early Warning
 System and Related Take-Over Bid and Insider Reporting Issues in
 respect of the securities disclosed in the alternative monthly report
 filed for the exchange traded fund business unit.
Should I send in my Proxy now? 
Yes. To ensure your vote is counted, you need to complete and
submit the enclosed Proxy or, if applicable, provide your nominee or
intermediary (bank, trust company, securities broker or other nominee) with
voting instructions. You are encouraged to vote well in advance of the proxy
cut-off at 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) on July 27, 2017 (or at least 48
hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) prior to any reconvened
Meeting in the event of an adjournment or postponement of the Meeting). 
4 

What approvals are required to be given by Osisko
Shareholders at the Meeting? 
Completion of the Acquisition is conditional upon, among other
things, approval of the Share Issuance Resolution, which must be approved, with
or without variation, by a majority of the votes cast on the Share Issuance
Resolution by Disinterested Osisko Shareholders present in person or by proxy at
the Meeting, which is scheduled to be held on Monday, July 31,
2017 at 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time). 
What will happen if the Share Issuance Resolution is not
approved by the Disinterested Osisko Shareholders or the
Acquisition is not completed for any reason? 
If the Share Issuance Resolution is not approved by the
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders at the Meeting, then the Acquisition and
Private Placement cannot be completed, and the Acquisition Agreement may be
terminated. If the Acquisition is not completed, then the Osisko Shares referred
to in the Share Issuance Resolution will not be issued. 
What if I have other questions? 
If you have any questions regarding the Meeting, please contact
Osisko's Proxy Solicitation Agent:

 
 
 Laurel Hill Advisory Group 
 
 
 
 1-877-452-7184 (North American toll free) 
 
 
 
 416-304-0211 (collect outside North America)

 
 
 
 assistance@laurelhill.com 
 
5 

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION CIRCULAR 
This Circular is furnished in connection with the solicitation
of proxies by or on behalf of the management of Osisko for use at the Meeting,
which is to be held at the offices of Lavery, de Billy, L.L.P. located at 1
Place Ville Marie, Suite 4000, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 4M4 at 9:00 a.m.
(Montréal time) on Monday, July 31, 2017 and at any adjournment(s)
or postponement(s) thereof for the purposes set forth in the accompanying Notice
of Meeting of Osisko Shareholders.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Except for the statements of historical fact contained herein,
the information presented in this Circular and the information incorporated by
reference herein, constitutes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and
"forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian
Securities Laws (together, "forward-looking information") concerning the
business, operations, plans and financial performance and condition of each of
Osisko, the Orion Parties and the Resulting Company (as defined herein). Often,
but not always, forward-looking information can be identified by words such as
"pro forma", "plans", "expects", "may", "should", "could", "will",
"budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates",
"believes", or variations, including negative variations, thereof that refer to
certain actions, events or results that may, could, would, might or will occur
or be taken or achieved. 
Forward-looking information involves known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual plans, results,
performance or achievements of Osisko, the Acquired Assets or the Resulting
Company to differ materially from any future plans, results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking information. Such
factors include, among others, the timing, closing or non-completion of the
Acquisition and/or Private Placement, including due to the Parties, CDP or the
Fonds F.T.Q. failing to receive, in a timely manner and on satisfactory terms,
the necessary securityholder, stock exchange and regulatory approvals or the
inability of the Parties, CDP or the Fonds F.T.Q. to satisfy or waive, in a
timely manner, the other conditions precedent to the Acquisition Closing and/or
the Private Placement Closing; completion of the Private Placement or completion
of the Private Placement on substantially the terms contemplated herein;
inability to achieve the benefits or synergies anticipated from the Acquisition;
actual operating cash flows, free cash flows, mineral resources, total cash,
transaction costs, and administrative costs of Osisko, the Acquired Assets or
the Resulting Company differing materially from those anticipated; risks related
to international operations; risks related to the holding of stream or royalty
interests on mineral properties; risks related to partnership or other joint
operations; actual results of current exploration activities; variations in
mineral resources, mineral production, grades or recovery rates or optimization
efforts and sales; delays in obtaining governmental approvals or financing or in
the completion of development or construction activities; uninsured risks;
regulatory changes; defects in title; availability or integration of personnel,
materials and equipment; performance of facilities, equipment and processes
relative to specifications and expectations; unanticipated environmental impacts
on operations; market prices; production, construction and technological risks
related to Osisko and the Acquired Assets; capital requirements and operating
risks associated with the operations of or an expansion of the operations of
Osisko, the Acquired Assets or the Resulting Company or the operations in
respect of which royalty, stream or offtake interests are held by Osisko, the
Acquired Assets or the Resulting Company; fluctuations in gold, silver and other
metal prices and currency exchange rates; uncertainty relating to future
production and cash resources; inability to successfully complete new
development projects, planned expansions or other projects within the timelines
anticipated; adverse changes to market, political and general economic
conditions or laws, rules and regulations applicable to Osisko, the Acquired
Assets or the Resulting Company; changes in project parameters; the possibility
of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses; accidents, labour
disputes, community and stakeholder protests and other risks inherent to the
mining industry; failure of plant, equipment or processes to operate as
anticipated; risk of an adverse claim; factors discussed under the heading
"Risk Factors"; and those risks set forth in Osisko's filings with the
Securities Authorities, which are available under Osisko's issuer profiles on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. 
Although Osisko has attempted to identify important factors
that could cause plans, actions, events or results to differ materially from
those described in forward-looking information in this Circular, and the
documents incorporated by reference herein, there may be other factors
that cause plans, actions, events or results not to be as anticipated, estimated
or intended. There is no assurance that such statements will prove to be
accurate as actual plans, results and future events could differ materially from
those anticipated in such statements or information. Accordingly, readers should
not place undue reliance on forward-looking information in this Circular, nor in
the documents incorporated by reference herein. All of the forward-looking
information made in this Circular, including all documents incorporated by
reference herein, are qualified by these cautionary statements. Osisko
undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information in
this Circular or incorporated by reference herein, except as required by law.
6 

In addition, forward-looking and pro forma information
 contained herein is based on certain assumptions and involves risks
 related to, among other things, (i) the consummation or non-consummation of the
 Acquisition and/or Private Placement, and (ii) the business and operations of
 Osisko, the Acquired Assets and the Resulting Company. Forward-looking and
 pro forma information contained herein is based on certain assumptions
 including that Disinterested Osisko Shareholders will vote in favour of the
 Share Issuance Resolution and that all other conditions to the Acquisition and
 the Private Placement are satisfied or waived and that the Acquisition and the
 Private Placement will be completed. Other assumptions include, but are not
 limited to: interest and exchange rates; the price of gold, silver and other
 metals; competitive conditions in the mining industry; title to mineral
 properties; financing and funding requirements; general economic, political and
 market conditions; and changes in laws, rules and regulations applicable to
Osisko, the Acquired Assets or the Resulting Company. 
Certain of the forward-looking information and other
information contained herein concerning the mining industry and general
expectations of Osisko and the Orion Parties concerning the mining industry,
Osisko, the Acquired Assets and the Resulting Company are based on estimates
prepared by Osisko using data from publicly available industry sources, as well
as from market research and industry analysis and on assumptions based on data
and knowledge of the mining industry which Osisko and the Orion Parties believe
to be reasonable. However, although generally indicative of relative market
positions, market shares and performance characteristics, this data is
inherently imprecise. While Osisko and the Orion Parties are not aware of any
misstatement regarding any industry data presented herein, the mining industry
involves risks and uncertainties that are subject to change based on various
factors. 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING THIRD PARTY INFORMATION

The disclosure in this Circular relating to the properties in
which Osisko or the Orion Parties, as the case may be, hold royalty, stream,
offtake or other interests and the operations on such properties is based on
information publicly disclosed by the owners or operators of these properties
and information or data available in the public domain as at June 28, 2017
(except where stated otherwise), and none of this information or data has been
independently verified by Osisko or the Orion Parties. As royalty, stream or
offtake holders, Osisko and the Orion Parties generally have limited, if any,
access to the properties included in or relating to their asset portfolios.
Therefore, in preparing disclosure pertaining to the properties in which Osisko
or the Orion Parties hold royalty, stream, offtake or other interests and the
operations on such properties, Osisko and the Orion Parties are dependent on
information publicly disclosed by the owners or operators of these properties
and information or data available in the public domain and generally have
limited or no ability to independently verify such information or data. Although
neither Osisko nor the Orion Parties have any knowledge that such information or
data is incomplete or inaccurate, there can be no assurance that such third
party information or data is complete or accurate. Additionally, some
information or data publicly reported by the owners or operators may relate to a
larger property than the area covered by the royalty, stream, offtake or other
interest of Osisko or the Orion Parties. Often, the royalty, stream, offtake or
other interests of Osisko or the Orion Parties cover less than 100% and
sometimes only a portion of the publicly reported mineral reserves, mineral
resources or production of a property. 
NON-IFRS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
Osisko has included certain non-IFRS measures including
"Adjusted Earnings" and "Adjusted Earnings per share" to supplement its
consolidated financial statements, which are presented in accordance with IFRS.

7 

Osisko believes that these measures, together with measures
determined in accordance with IFRS, provide investors with an improved ability
to evaluate the underlying performance of Osisko. Non-IFRS measures do not have
any standardized meaning prescribed under IFRS, and, therefore, they may not be
comparable to similar measures employed by other companies. The data is intended
to provide additional information and should not be considered in isolation or
as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.

To determine its method of calculating "Adjusted Earnings" and
"Adjusted Earnings per share" for the year ended December 31, 2016 and the three
months ended March 31, 2017, Osisko has reviewed, during the first quarter of
2017, similar adjusted earnings calculations by its peers. Following this
review, Osisko has decided to exclude the gains and losses on foreign exchange
from its "Adjusted Earnings" and "Adjusted Earnings per share" as they do not
reflect the operating performance of Osisko. 
See the section entitled "Non-IFRS Financial Performance
Measures" in (i) the management's discussion and analysis of Osisko for the
three months ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, dated May 4, 2017, and
(ii) the management's discussion and analysis of Osisko for the year ended
December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, dated March 15, 2017. 
CAUTIONARY NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS IN THE UNITED STATES

The solicitations and transactions contemplated in this
Circular are being made in the United States for securities of a Canadian issuer
in accordance with Canadian corporate and securities laws, and this Circular has
been prepared solely in accordance with disclosure requirements applicable in
Canada. Osisko Shareholders in the United States should be aware that such
requirements are materially different from those of the United States applicable
to proxy statements prepared in accordance with Schedule 14A under the U.S.
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
As a Canadian company, Osisko prepares its financial statements
in accordance with IFRS. Consequently, all of the financial statements and
financial information of Osisko included or incorporated by reference in this
Circular is prepared in accordance with IFRS, which are materially different
than financial statements and financial information prepared in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
When used in respect of the projects in which Osisko or the
Orion Parties has an interest, the terms "mineral reserve" and "mineral
resource" have been reported in accordance with Canadian reporting standards.
Canadian reporting requirements for disclosure of mineral properties are
governed by NI 43-101. U.S. reporting requirements are governed by Guide 7. The
information included or incorporated by reference in this Circular includes
estimates of the "mineral reserve" and "mineral resource" reported in accordance
with NI 43-101. The reporting standards under NI 43-101 and Guide 7 are
materially different. For example, under Guide 7, mineralization may not be
classified as a "reserve" unless the determination has been made that the
mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the
time the reserve determination is made, which is not the case under NI 43-101.
Consequently, the definitions of "proven mineral reserve" and "probable mineral
reserve" under NI 43-101 differ in certain material respects from the standards
of the SEC. In addition, Osisko also reports estimates of "mineral resource" in
accordance with NI 43-101. While the terms "mineral resource", "measured mineral
resource", "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource" are
recognized by NI 43-101, they are not recognized under the standards of the SEC.
As a result, U.S. companies are generally not permitted to report estimates of
"mineral resource" of any category in documents filed with the SEC. As such,
certain information included or incorporated by reference in this Circular
concerning descriptions of mineralization and estimates of "mineral reserve" and
"mineral resource" reported in accordance with Canadian standards is not
comparable to similar information made public by United States companies subject
to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. Readers are cautioned
not to assume that all or any part of a "measured mineral resource" or
"indicated mineral resource" estimate will ever be converted into a "mineral
reserve". Readers should also not assume that all or any part of a "mineral
resource" will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In particular, an
"inferred mineral resource" has a great amount of uncertainty as to its
existence and as to its economic and legal feasibility and, under NI 43-101, an
"inferred mineral resource" estimate may not form the basis of feasibility or
other economic studies. Readers are, therefore, further cautioned not to assume
that all or any part of an "inferred mineral resource" exists or is, or will
ever be, economically or legally mineable. 
8 

GENERAL MATTERS 
Reporting Currencies and Accounting Principles

Unless otherwise indicated, all references to "$" or "C$" in
this Circular refer to Canadian dollars and all reference herein to "US$" in
this Circular refer to U.S. dollars. The financial statements of the Acquired
Assets that are included herein in Schedule "F" – "Financial Statements and
Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Acquired Assets" are reported in
United States dollars and are prepared in accordance with IFRS. Osisko's
financial statements that are incorporated by reference herein are reported in
Canadian dollars and are prepared in accordance with IFRS. The pro forma
financial statements that are included in Schedule "G" – "Unaudited Pro Forma
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Osisko" to this Circular are
reported in Canadian dollars. 
Exchange Rate Data 
The following table sets forth the high and low exchange rates
for one U.S. dollar expressed in Canadian dollars for each period indicated, the
average of the exchange rates for each period indicated and the exchange rate at
the end of each such period, based upon the noon buying rates provided by the
Bank of Canada: 

 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 1.4589 
 
 
 1.3990 
 
 
 1.1643 
 
 
 
 Low 
 
 1.2544 
 
 
 1.1728 
 
 
 1.0614 
 
 
 
 Average noon buying rate for
 the period(1) 
 
 1.3248 
 
 
 1.2787 
 
 
 1.1045 
 
 
 
 Rate at end of period 
 
 1.3427 
 
 
 1.3840 
 
 
 1.1601 
 
____________________
Note: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Determined by averaging the noon buying rate for each
 date of the respective period.
The indicative rate published by the Bank of Canada on June 28,
2017 for the conversion of Canadian dollars into United States dollars was
C$1.00 to US$0.7657 and for the conversion of United States dollars into
Canadian dollars was US$1.00 to C$1.3060. 
Information Contained in this Circular

The information contained in this Circular is given as at June
28, 2017, except where otherwise noted and except that information in documents
incorporated by reference is given as of the dates noted therein. No person has
been authorized to give any information or to make any representation in
connection with the Acquisition, the Private Placement and any other matters
described herein other than those contained in this Circular and, if given or
made, any such information or representation should be considered not to have
been authorized by Osisko. 
This Circular does not constitute the solicitation of an offer
to purchase, or the making of an offer to sell, any securities or the
solicitation of a Proxy by any person in any jurisdiction in which such
solicitation or offer is not authorized or in which the person making such
solicitation or offer is not qualified to do so or to any person to whom it is
unlawful to make such solicitation or offer. 
Information contained in this Circular should not be construed
as legal, tax or financial advice and Osisko Shareholders are urged to consult
their own professional advisors in connection with such subjects. 
Descriptions in this Circular of the terms of the Acquisition
Agreement, the Subscription Agreements, the Investor Rights Agreement, the
Shareholder Participation Agreement and the Voting Agreement are summaries of
the terms of those documents and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of
such documents. Osisko Shareholders should refer to the text of the Acquisition
Agreement and the Subscription Agreements for additional details of such
documents. The text of the Acquisition Agreement and the Subscription
Agreements, which are incorporated by reference in this Circular, may be viewed under Osisko's issuer
profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. 

9 

 Information Contained in this Circular Regarding the
 Orion Parties 
Certain information in this Circular pertaining to the Orion
Parties and the Acquired Assets, including, but not limited to, information
pertaining to the Acquired Assets attached hereto as Schedule "D" –
"Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017",
Schedule "F" – "Financial Statements and Management's Discussion and Analysis
of the Acquired Assets", and the information relating to the Acquired Assets
in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements
attached hereto as Schedule "G" – "Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements of Osisko", has been furnished by the Orion Parties
and, with respect to technical information pertaining to the Acquired Assets, is
based on information provided by the owners or operators of the respective
Acquired Assets and information or data that is available in the public domain.
With respect to this information, the Board has relied exclusively upon the
Orion Parties, without independent verification by Osisko. Although Osisko does
not have any knowledge that would indicate that such information is untrue or
incomplete, there can be no assurance that such information is accurate or
complete, and neither Osisko nor any of its directors or officers assumes any
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of such information including
any of the financial statements of the Orion Parties or the Acquired Assets, or
for the failure by the Orion Parties to disclose any events or information that
may affect the completeness or accuracy of such information. See Schedule "D" –
"Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017". 
10 

SUMMARY OF CIRCULAR 
This summary should be read together with and is qualified
in its entirety by the more detailed information and financial data and
statements contained elsewhere in this Circular, including the Schedules hereto
and documents incorporated into this Circular by reference. Capitalized terms in
this summary have the meanings set out in the Glossary of Terms or as set out in
this summary. The text of the Acquisition Agreement and the Subscription
Agreements which are incorporated by reference in this Circular, may be viewed
under Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com
and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. The text of the Investor Rights
Agreement, the Shareholder Participation Agreement and the Voting Agreement will
be available following the Acquisition Closing under Osisko's issuer profiles on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. 
Date, Time and Place of Meeting 
The Meeting will be held on Monday, July 31, 2017
at 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) at the offices of Lavery, de Billy, L.L.P. located
at 1 Place Ville Marie, Suite 4000, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 4M4. 
The Record Date for determining the Osisko Shareholders
entitled to receive notice of and to vote at the Meeting is June 19, 2017. Only
Osisko Shareholders of record as of the close of business (Montréal time) on the
Record Date are entitled to receive notice of and to vote at the Meeting,
provided, however, that the 1,414,995 Osisko Shares (representing approximately
1.3% of the issued and outstanding Osisko Shares as at the Record Date) held by
Interested Osisko Shareholders (being the directors and executive officers of
Osisko) are not entitled to vote on the Share Issuance Resolution. 
Purpose of the Meeting 
The purpose of the Meeting is for the Disinterested Osisko
Shareholders to consider and, if deemed advisable, to pass, with or without
variation, the Share Issuance Resolution, the full text of which is set out in
Schedule "A" – "Resolutions to be Approved at the Meeting" to this
Circular. The Share Issuance Resolution is an ordinary resolution approving (i)
the issuance of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares consisting of (x) 30,906,594 Osisko
Shares to be issued as the Share Consideration, and (y) 19,272,820 Osisko Shares
to be issued pursuant to the Private Placement (including 385,457 Osisko Shares
to be issued on account of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares),
and (ii) the entering into of the Voting Agreement with the Designated Orion
Shareholders. See "The Voting Agreement" in this Circular for a
description of the Voting Agreement. 
Approval of the Share Issuance Resolution is required (i) in
accordance with Section 611(c) of the TSX Company Manual as the number of Osisko
Shares issued or issuable in payment of the Share Consideration and pursuant to
the Private Placement exceeds 25% of the number of Osisko Shares outstanding on
a non-diluted basis, and (ii) as the Board and management may have a potential
interest in, or derive a potential benefit from, the Voting Agreement. 
See "The Acquisition – Overview" for an overview of the
Acquisition and Private Placement, being the transactions relating to the Share
Issuance Resolution. 
If the Share Issuance Resolution is not approved by the
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders at the Meeting, then the Acquisition and
Private Placement cannot be completed. 
Management of Osisko and the Board recommend that
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders vote FOR the Share
Issuance Resolution. 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd was formed on April 29, 2014 in
conjunction with the acquisition of Canadian Malartic Corporation, which held
the Canadian Malartic mine and other assets in development, by a partnership
formed by Agnico Eagle Mines Limited and Yamana Gold Inc. 
11 

Following its formation, Osisko began as a royalty company as
of June 16, 2014 with a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine, other non
cash-flowing royalties, and C$157 million in cash. Osisko's market
capitalization was initially evaluated at approximately C$500 million. 
Over the past 36 months, Osisko further transformed itself by
strategically acquiring Virginia, a portfolio of royalties from Teck Resources
Limited and most recently a silver stream on Taseko Mines Limited's Gibraltar
copper mine. During that period, Osisko advanced its own "accelerator"
investment model, through which it was able to significantly contribute to the
reinvigoration of the mining exploration sector in Canada. Through its
investments in Osisko Mining Inc., Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd., Falco Resources
Ltd. and numerous other mining companies, Osisko was able to acquire strategic
royalties and stream financing options on prospective land packages and
projects. The accelerator model also enabled Osisko to maintain its dynamic
technical team, but most importantly to leverage its extensive expertise in
exploration, engineering, construction, operations and financing. 
Prior to the Acquisition, Osisko had achieved a market
capitalization of approximately C$1.6 billion, over three times its starting
valuation in June 2014. The Acquisition marks Osisko's next significant step in
its transformation into a world class royalty company. 
The Osisko Shares are listed for trading on the TSX and NYSE
under the symbol "OR". 
Osisko is a corporation incorporated under the QBCA. Osisko's
head office and registered office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 2S2. 
See Schedule "C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June
28, 2017" in this Circular for a description of Osisko. 
The Orion Parties 
The Orion Parties are part of one of the world's leading
mining-focused private equity businesses. In addition, the Orion Parties have
experience in the physical metals markets, such as facilitating the purchase,
metal financing, transporting, processing and selling of a mine's output to end
customers. 
As a result of the Acquisition, Osisko will add 74 assets,
including 61 royalties, 7 precious metal offtakes and 6 streams, which are held,
directly or indirectly, by the Orion Parties, including the Renard Stream, the
Brucejack Stream, and the Mantos Blancos Stream. Pursuant to the Renard Stream,
Osisko will receive 9.6% of diamond production from the Renard diamond mine.
Pursuant to the Brucejack Stream, Osisko will receive 4.0% of gold and silver
production until 7.067 million ounces of gold have been produced and 26.297
million ounces of silver have been produced from the Brucejack gold mine.
Pursuant to the Mantos Blancos Stream, as amended pursuant to the terms of the
Acquisition, Osisko will receive 100% of payable silver from the Mantos Blancos
copper mine until 19.3 million ounces of payable silver have been produced at
the mine, after which the stream percentage will be 30% of payable silver.
Certain Acquired Assets are subject to buy-backs or buy-downs. 
Reference is made to the Acquisition Agreement dated June 4,
2017 among Osisko and the Orion Parties. A description of the Orion Parties are
set forth below. 

 
 
 • 
 
 Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP and Orion Mine
 Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP are Bermudan exempted partnerships and
 limited partnerships. The registered office for Orion Mine Finance
 (Master) Fund I LP and Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP is Canon's
 Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Orion Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC is a Delaware limited
 liability company. The registered office for Orion Co-Investments I
 (Stream) LLC is 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Delaware 19808, USA.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Orion Co-Investments II LP and Orion Co-Investments IV LP
 are Bermudan limited partnerships. The registered office for Orion
 Co-Investments II LP and Co-Investments IV LP is Canon's Court, 22
 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda. 
12 

 
 
 • 
 
 8248567 Canada Limited is a corporation incorporated
 under the CBCA. The registered office for 8248567 Canada Limited is 3400 –
 350 – 7th Avenue SW, Calgary, Alberta, T2P 3N9. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lynx Metals Limited is a Bermudan corporation. The
 registered office for Lynx Metals Limited is Canon's Court, 22 Victoria
 Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda. 
For more information on the Orion Parties and the Acquired
Assets, see Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of
June 28, 2017". 
The Acquisition 
Overview 
The purpose of the Acquisition Agreement is to effect the
Acquisition by Osisko of the Acquired Assets. Subject to the terms and
conditions of the Acquisition Agreement, Osisko will acquire, directly or
through the acquisition of shares or other equity ownership interests of
entities owned by the Orion Parties, all of the right, title and interest of the
Orion Parties in 74 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes. 
Under the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Orion Parties
will receive, in exchange for the sale of the Acquired Assets, consideration
comprised of (i) the Cash Consideration, and (ii) the Share Consideration. 
In connection with the Acquisition, Osisko will complete a
concurrent Private Placement to fund a portion of the Cash Consideration through
the issuance of 18,887,363 Osisko Shares at a price of C$14.56 per Osisko Share,
for aggregate gross proceeds of C$275 million. CDP (C$200 million) and the Fonds
F.T.Q. (C$75 million) are the two subscribers under the Private Placement. The
Private Placement is subject to a seven percent capital commitment fee payable
by Osisko partially in cash (five percent) and partially in Osisko Shares (two
percent). 
The aggregate gross proceeds of the Private Placement will be
used, along with a draw of approximately C$150 million under Osisko's revolving
credit facility with National Bank of Canada and Bank of Montréal and
approximately C$250 million of existing cash reserves, to fund the Cash
Consideration. 
At the Meeting, the Disinterested Osisko Shareholders will be
asked to consider and, if deemed advisable, to pass, with or without variation,
the Share Issuance Resolution, which is an ordinary resolution approving (i) the
issuance of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares consisting of (x) 30,906,594 Osisko Shares
to be issued as the Share Consideration, and (y) 19,272,820 Osisko Shares to be
issued pursuant to the Private Placement (including 385,457 Osisko Shares to be
issued on account of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares), and
(ii) the entering into of the Voting Agreement with the Designated Orion
Shareholders. See "The Voting Agreement" in this Circular for a
description of the Voting Agreement. 
Background to the Acquisition

The Acquisition and the provisions of the Acquisition Agreement
are the result of arm's length negotiations conducted between representatives of
Osisko and the Orion Parties. A summary of the material events leading up to the
negotiation of the Acquisition Agreement and the material meetings, negotiations
and discussions between the Parties that preceded the execution and public
announcement of the Acquisition Agreement is included in this Circular under the
heading "The Acquisition – Background to the Acquisition". 
Recommendation of the Board

After careful consideration, including a thorough review of the
Acquisition Agreement and receiving the oral fairness opinion of Maxit Capital
delivered to the Board (subsequently confirmed in writing), as well as a
thorough review of other matters, including those discussed below, the Board
unanimously determined that the Acquisition is in the best interests of Osisko.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously approved the Acquisition Agreement and
unanimously recommends that Disinterested Osisko Shareholders vote
FOR the Share Issuance Resolution.
13 

See "The Acquisition – Recommendation of the Board".
Reasons for the Recommendation of
the Board 
In the course of the Board's evaluation of the Acquisition, the
Board and/or senior management consulted with its financial advisors, Maxit
Capital, BMO Capital Markets and National Bank of Canada, PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, and its legal counsel, who performed financial, technical and legal
due diligence with the help of its advisors and experts on, among other things,
the Orion Parties and the Acquired Assets and considered a number of factors,
including, among others, the following: 

 
 • 
 
 Strength of the Resulting Company. If the
 Acquisition is completed, the market capitalization of the Resulting
 Company is expected to be approximately C$2.3 billion (based on the price
 of C$14.56 per Osisko Share used in valuing the Share Consideration and
 issue price of the Private Placement Shares), immediately creating a
 growth-oriented, world class gold-focused royalty and streaming company
 with five cornerstone assets, four of which are Canadian. The Acquisition
 meaningfully increases the size and scale of Osisko's platform, which is
 expected to enhance its competitive positioning and access to capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Diversification of Assets. If the Acquisition is
 completed, shareholders of the Resulting Company will benefit from a
 diversified portfolio of assets with less dependence on specific assets.
 The Acquisition adds 74 assets, including 61 royalties, seven precious
 metal offtakes and six streams, diversifies Osisko's existing cash flowing
 asset base and enhances the Resulting Company's development and
 exploration pipeline. The Resulting Company's portfolio of assets would
 include, among other things, the 5% NSR royalty on the producing Canadian
 Malartic mine, the sliding-scale 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the producing
 Éléonore mine, the 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard mine, the 4.0% gold
 and silver stream on the Brucejack mine, and the 100% silver stream on the
 Mantos Blancos mine. For more information on the Acquired Assets, see
 Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June
 28, 2017". 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Immediately Accretive to Cash Flow. The
 Acquisition, which increases the number of Osisko Shares outstanding by
 less than 50%, doubles Osisko's near-term cash flow and more than triples
 Osisko's cash flowing assets from five assets to 16 assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Industry Leading Production and Cash Flow Growth.
 The Acquisition will provide Osisko with an unparalleled growth
 pipeline with expected forecasted production of over 100,000 gold
 equivalent ounces in 2018 growing to over 140,000 gold equivalent ounces
 by 2023, and pro forma cash flow growth of 10% per annum from 2017
 to 2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Addition of Three Cornerstone Assets. Stream
 assets from the Renard, Mantos Blancos and Brucejack mines complement
 Osisko's existing cornerstone NSR royalties on the world class Canadian
 Malartic and Éléonore mines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Maintains Precious Metals Focus. Osisko's pro
 forma net present value and cash flow will be over 90% from precious
 metal assets (including diamonds). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Americas Focused Portfolio. Over 80% of combined
 cash flow will come from North America and over 90% of combined cash flow
 will come from the Americas. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Low Geopolitical Risk. The Resulting Company's
 cornerstone assets will primarily be located in Canada, predominantly in
 Québec, resulting in a low geopolitical risk portfolio. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Financial Position. The Resulting Company is
 expected to have greater balance sheet strength and financial flexibility,
 with approximately C$100 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term
 investments, approximately C$450 million in investments, and C$200 million
 in debt. 
14 

 
 • 
 Enhanced Market Profile. The increased
 market capitalization and increased trading liquidity upon completion of
 the Acquisition is expected to broaden the Resulting Company's investor
 appeal with enhanced market and analyst coverage, and provides strong
 potential for re-rating of the Osisko Shares. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Maxit Fairness Opinion. The oral
 fairness opinion of Maxit Capital delivered to the Board (subsequently
 confirmed in writing) to the effect that, as of the date of the Maxit
 Fairness Opinion, and based upon and subject to the assumptions,
 limitations and qualifications set forth in the written Maxit Fairness
 Opinion, the Purchase Price to be paid by Osisko pursuant to the
 Acquisition Agreement is fair, from a financial point of view, to Osisko.
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Shareholder Approval. The Share Issuance
 Resolution must be approved by at least a majority of the votes cast by
 the Disinterested Osisko Shareholders at the Meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Limited Conditionality. There are a
 limited number of conditions, beyond approval of the Share Issuance
 Resolution, required for the completion of the Acquisition, which the
 Board expects to have satisfied in due course. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Shareholder Participation Agreement and
 Voting Agreement. In connection with the Acquisition Closing, the
 Designated Orion Shareholders shall enter into the Shareholder
 Participation Agreement and the Voting Agreement pursuant to which, among
 other things, the Designated Orion Shareholders will agree to certain
 terms and conditions in connection with their ownership of the Osisko
 Shares comprising the Share Consideration. The Shareholder Participation
 Agreement and the Voting Agreement provide additional protection for the
 Osisko Shareholders. See "The Shareholder Participation Agreement"
 and "The Voting Agreement". 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Evaluation and Analysis. The Board has
 given lengthy consideration to the business, operations, assets, financial
 condition, operating results and prospects for the Resulting Company as
 well as current industry, economic and market conditions and related
 risks. 
See "The Acquisition – Reasons for the Recommendation of the
Board", "The Acquisition – Opinion of Maxit Capital", Schedule "C" –
"Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017" and Schedule "E" –
"Information Concerning the Resulting Company as of June 28, 2017" in
this Circular. 
The Board's reasons for recommending the Acquisition include
certain assumptions relating to forward-looking information, and such
information and assumptions are subject to various risks. See "Cautionary
Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information" and "Risk Factors –
Risks Relating to the Acquisition" in this Circular. 
Opinion of Maxit Capital 
Maxit Capital was retained to render financial advisory
services to Osisko and the Board and provide an opinion as to the fairness to
Osisko, from a financial point of view, of the Purchase Price to be paid by
Osisko pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement. Maxit Capital delivered the Maxit
Fairness Opinion concluding that, as at the date thereof and subject to the
assumptions, limitations and qualifications contained therein, the Purchase
Price to be paid by Osisko pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement is fair, from a
financial point of view, to Osisko. The full text of the Maxit Fairness Opinion,
setting out the assumptions made, matters considered and limitations and
qualifications on the review undertaken in connection with the Maxit Fairness
Opinion, is attached as Schedule "B" – "Fairness Opinion of Maxit
Capital" to this Circular. 
The summary of the Maxit Fairness Opinion described in this
Circular is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Maxit
Fairness Opinion. 
The Maxit Fairness Opinion is not a recommendation to any
Osisko Shareholder as to how to vote or act on any matter relating to the
Acquisition. The Maxit Fairness Opinion was one of a number of factors taken
into consideration by the Board in making its unanimous determination to
recommend that Osisko Shareholders vote in favour of the Share Issuance
Resolution. 
15 

The Board urges Osisko Shareholders to read the
Maxit Fairness Opinion carefully and in its entirety. 
See "The Acquisition – Opinion of Maxit Capital" in this
Circular, as well as the full text of the Maxit Fairness Opinion attached hereto
as Schedule "B" – "Fairness Opinion of Maxit Capital" to this Circular.

Effects of the Acquisition 
Osisko Shareholders 
As of the date of this Circular, an aggregate of 106,743,944
Osisko Shares were issued and outstanding on a non-diluted basis. An aggregate
of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares are expected to be issued in connection with the
completion of the Acquisition and the Private Placement, which would result in
the Resulting Company having an aggregate of 156,923,358 Osisko Shares
outstanding, on a non-diluted basis. 

 
 
 • 
 
 The 106,743,944 Osisko Shares outstanding as of the date
 hereof are expected to represent, on a non- diluted basis, approximately
 68.0% of the Resulting Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The 30,906,594 Osisko Shares to be issued to the
 Designated Orion Shareholders as the Share Consideration are expected to
 represent, on a non-diluted basis, approximately 19.7% of the Resulting
 Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The 19,272,820 Osisko Shares to be issued to CDP, an
 affiliate of the Caisse, and the Fonds F.T.Q. pursuant to the Private
 Placement (which includes the 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued on
 account of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares) are
 expected to represent, on a non-diluted basis, approximately 12.3% of the
 Resulting Company (excluding the 4,997,497 Osisko Shares and 3,384,264
 Osisko Shares held by the Caisse, together with its affiliates, and the
 Fonds F.T.Q., respectively, as of the date hereof).

Following the completion of the Acquisition, Mr. Oskar
Lewnowski, Chief Investment Officer of Orion Resource Partners (USA) LP, will
join the Board. Mr. Lewnowski is the founder of Orion Resource Partners (USA) LP
and has more than 20 years of experience in mine financing, metals trading, and
mergers and acquisitions. As part of the Investor Rights Agreement, CDP will
also have the right to nominate one director to the Board. 
Corporate Structure 
The Acquisition will result in Orion TitheCo Limited becoming a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Osisko. Orion TitheCo Limited holds the Brucejack
Stream and the Mantos Blancos Stream, directly or indirectly. In addition,
Osisko will acquire the Renard Stream directly. Set forth below is the expected
corporate structure of the Resulting Company, which depicts how the material
assets of the Resulting Company are expected to be held following the completion
of the Acquisition. 

 
16 

____________________
Note: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Osisko and its subsidiaries have additional interests in
 other subsidiaries that do not meet the materiality thresholds for
 disclosure set out in Form 51-102F2 of the Canadian Securities
 Administrators.
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 The Brucejack Stream is held by Orion Co-Investments II
 (Stream) Limited, which is expected to be a non-material wholly-owned
 subsidiary of Osisko and Orion TitheCo Limited. The Mantos Blancos Stream
 is held by Orion TitheCo Limited.
See Schedule "E" – "Information Concerning the Resulting
Company as of June 28, 2017" in this Circular. 
Osisko Shareholder Approval 
Approval of the Share Issuance Resolution is required (i) in
accordance with Section 611(c) of the TSX Company Manual as the number of Osisko
Shares issuable in payment of the Share Consideration and pursuant to the
Private Placement exceeds 25% of the number of Osisko Shares outstanding on a
non-diluted basis. If the Acquisition is completed, 50,179,414 Osisko Shares
will be issued, consisting of (x) 30,906,594 Osisko Shares to be issued as the
Share Consideration, and (y) 19,272,820 Osisko Shares to be issued pursuant to
the Private Placement (including 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued on account
of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares), representing, in the
aggregate, approximately 47.0% of the number of issued and outstanding Osisko
Shares as of the date hereof (being 106,743,944 Osisko Shares), and (ii) as the
Board and management may have a potential interest in, or derive a potential
benefit from, the Voting Agreement. 
The Share Issuance Resolution must be approved, with or without
variation, by at least a majority of the votes cast by Disinterested Osisko
Shareholders present in person or represented by Proxy at the Meeting. The
complete text of the Share Issuance Resolution to be presented to the Meeting is
set forth in Schedule "A" – "Resolutions to be Approved at the Meeting"
to this Circular. 
The Acquisition Agreement provides that the Share Issuance
Resolution must be approved as a condition precedent to the completion of the
Acquisition. 
The Board and management recommend that Disinterested Osisko
Shareholders VOTE FOR the Share Issuance Resolution. In the
absence of instructions to the contrary, the persons whose names appear in the
attached Proxy intend to VOTE FOR the Share Issuance
Resolution. 
If the Share Issuance Resolution does not receive the requisite
approval, the Acquisition will not proceed. 
The Acquisition Agreement 
The Acquisition will be effected in accordance with the
Acquisition Agreement, the text of which may be viewed under Osisko's issuer
profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. A
summary of the material terms of the Acquisition Agreement is set out under the
heading "The Acquisition Agreement" in this Circular and is subject to
and qualified in its entirety by the text of the Acquisition Agreement, which is
incorporated by reference in this Circular. 
The Shareholder Participation Agreement

As a condition to the Acquisition Closing, Osisko and the
Designated Orion Shareholders shall have entered into the Shareholder
Participation Agreement, in substantially the form agreed between the Parties in
the Acquisition Agreement, which sets forth certain rights and obligations of
Osisko and the Designated Orion Shareholders in connection with, among other
things, the Designated Orion Shareholders' ownership of the Osisko Shares
comprising the Share Consideration. A summary of the material terms of the
Shareholder Participation Agreement is set out under the heading "The
Shareholder Participation Agreement" in this Circular and is subject to and
qualified in its entirety by the text of the Shareholder Participation
Agreement. 
17 

The text of the Shareholder Participation Agreement will be
available following the Acquisition Closing under Osisko's issuer profiles on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. 
The Voting Agreement
As a condition to the Acquisition Closing, Osisko and the
Designated Orion Shareholders shall have entered into the Voting Agreement, in
substantially the form agreed between the Parties in the Acquisition Agreement,
pursuant to which the Designated Orion Shareholders have covenanted to vote, or
cause to be voted, all of the Consideration Shares at all meetings of Osisko
Shareholders in respect of certain matters in a manner consistent with the
recommendation made by management of Osisko or the Board, as applicable. A
summary of the material terms of the Voting Agreement is set out under the
heading "The Voting Agreement" in this Circular and is subject to and
qualified in its entirety by the text of the Voting Agreement. 
The text of the Voting Agreement will be available following
the Acquisition Closing under Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at
www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. 
The Subscription Agreements 
Osisko has entered into the Subscription Agreements pursuant to
which it will complete the Private Placement. Under the Private Placement, CDP,
an affiliate of the Caisse, and the Fonds F.T.Q. will purchase on a "private
placement" basis an aggregate of 18,887,363 Osisko Shares at a price of C$14.56
per Osisko Share for gross proceeds to Osisko of C$275 million. The Private
Placement Closing is scheduled to occur concurrently with the Acquisition
Closing. 
Assuming completion of both the Private Placement and the
Acquisition, the Caisse, together with its affiliates, and the Fonds F.T.Q. will
beneficially own, or exercise control or direction over, directly or indirectly,
an aggregate of 19,014,093 and 8,640,488 Osisko Shares, respectively (which
includes the 4,997,497 and 3,384,264 Osisko Shares which the Caisse and the
Fonds F.T.Q., respectively, currently beneficially own, or exercise control or
direction over, directly or indirectly), representing approximately 12.1% and
5.5%, respectively, of the issued and outstanding Osisko Shares. These figures
include the 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued as partial payment (two percent)
of the seven percent capital commitment fee payable by Osisko to CDP and the
Fonds F.T.Q. 
The Osisko Shares issued pursuant to the Private Placement will
be subject to a statutory hold period. In addition, CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q.
have each agreed not to (i) sell, offer, contract or grant any option or right
to sell or otherwise dispose of any of the Osisko Shares acquired by them
pursuant to the Private Placement and, in the case of CDP, any other Osisko
Shares held by the Caisse directly or indirectly as of June 4, 2017
(collectively, the "Locked-Up Shares") (other than to a wholly-owned
affiliate); (ii) enter into any swap agreement or any other agreement to
transfer the economic consequence of ownership of the Locked-Up Shares (other
than with a wholly-owned affiliate); (iii) publicly announce an intention to do
any of the foregoing or (iv) act jointly or in concert with any third party
doing any of the foregoing for the duration of a period of six months following
the Private Placement Closing Date (the "Lock-Up Period"), unless
otherwise approved by Osisko. Completion of the Private Placement is subject to
a number of conditions. The TSX has conditionally approved, and it is
anticipated that the NYSE will approve, the listing of the Osisko Shares
issuable pursuant to the Private Placement, subject to Osisko fulfilling all of
the listing requirements of the TSX and NYSE, including obtaining the requisite
approval of the Share Issuance Resolution by the Disinterested Osisko
Shareholders. 
CDP Subscription
Agreement
The text of the CDP Subscription Agreement may be viewed under
Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. A summary of the key terms of the CDP Subscription Agreement
is included under the heading "The Subscription Agreements" in this
Circular. 
18 

Fonds F.T.Q. Subscription
Agreement 
The text of the Fonds F.T.Q. Subscription Agreement may be
viewed under Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR
at www.sec.gov. A summary of the key terms of the Fonds F.T.Q.
Subscription Agreement is included under the heading "The Subscription
Agreements" in this Circular. 
Investor Rights Agreement 
Pursuant to the CDP Subscription Agreement, CDP and Osisko
shall enter into, concurrently with the Private Placement Closing, the Investor
Rights Agreement. The Investor Rights Agreement will govern the rights and
obligations of CDP and Osisko in connection with the Caisse's status as an
Osisko Shareholder. 
The text of the Investor Rights Agreement will be available
following the Private Placement Closing under Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. 
Canadian Securities Laws
Listing and Resale of Shares

Osisko has applied to the TSX to list the 50,179,414 Osisko
Shares to be issued in connection with the Acquisition (30,906,594 Osisko Shares
as the Share Consideration) and the Private Placement (19,272,820 Osisko Shares
as the Private Placement Shares, including 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued on
account of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares). The TSX has
conditionally approved the listing of the Osisko Shares to be issued in
connection with the Acquisition and the Private Placement. Listing is subject to
Osisko fulfilling all of the listing requirements of the TSX, including
obtaining the requisite approval of the Share Issuance Resolution by the
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders. 
The issuance of the Osisko Shares pursuant to the Acquisition
and the Private Placement will constitute distributions of securities that are
exempt from the prospectus requirements of applicable Canadian Securities
Laws.
Under Canadian Securities Laws, Osisko Shares issued pursuant
to the Acquisition and the Private Placement may be resold in each province and
territory of Canada, provided: (i) that Osisko is a reporting issuer in a
jurisdiction of Canada for the four months immediately preceding the trade; (ii)
at least four months have elapsed since the distribution date; (iii) the
appropriate restrictive legend was applied to the certificate representing the
Osisko Shares or the purchaser received written notice containing the legend
restriction notification set out in section 2.5(2)(3) or (3.1) of NI 45-102;
(iv) the trade is not a "control distribution" as defined in NI 45-102; (v) no
unusual effort is made to prepare the market or create a demand for those
securities; (vi) no extraordinary commission or consideration is paid in respect
of that trade; and (vii) if the selling security holder is an "insider" or
"officer" of Osisko (as such terms are defined by applicable Canadian Securities
Laws), the insider or officer has no reasonable grounds to believe that Osisko
is in default of applicable Canadian Securities Laws. 
In addition to the foregoing, the Osisko Shares to be issued to
the Designated Orion Shareholders, CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. are subject to a
contractual hold period and, in the case of the Osisko Shares to be issued to
the Designated Orion Shareholders, a broad distribution requirement, in certain
circumstances. See "The Shareholder Participation Agreement – Restriction on
Resale of Share Consideration" and "The Subscription Agreements –
Lock-Up". 
U.S. Securities Laws 
The issuance of Osisko Shares pursuant to the Acquisition and
the Private Placement will be made pursuant to applicable exemptions from the
registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act. 
See "Securities Law Matters – U.S. Securities Laws".

19 

Timing to Complete the Acquisition and Private
Placement 
The Acquisition is expected to close on or about July 31, 2017,
subject to the satisfaction or waiver of all conditions precedent in the
Acquisition Agreement, including approval of the Share Issuance Resolution, as
well as the approval of the TSX and NYSE. The Private Placement Closing is
scheduled to take place concurrently with the Acquisition Closing. The
Acquisition Closing Date and Private Placement Closing Date could be delayed for
a number of reasons. 
Unaudited Pro Forma
Condensed Consolidated Financial Information 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial
statements of Osisko, including its respective pro forma consolidated
balance sheet as at March 31, 2017 and pro forma consolidated statement
of income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2016 and the three month period
ended March 31, 2017, are set out in Schedule "G" – "Unaudited Pro Forma
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Osisko".
Risk Factors 
Risk factors relating to the Acquisition, the Acquired Assets
and the Resulting Company should be considered by Osisko Shareholders in
evaluating whether to approve the Share Issuance Resolution. These risk factors
should be considered in conjunction with the other information contained in, or
incorporated by reference into this Circular, including the risks described in
Schedule "C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017",
Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28,
2017" and Schedule "E" – "Information Concerning the Resulting Company as
of June 28, 2017" in this Circular, and those risks set forth in Osisko's
filings with the Securities Authorities, which are available under Osisko's
issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov.
See "Risk Factors". 
20 

GENERAL PROXY INFORMATION 
Date, Time and Place of Meeting 
The Meeting will be held on Monday, July 31, 2017
at 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) at the offices of Lavery, de Billy, L.L.P. located
at 1 Place Ville Marie, Suite 4000, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 4M4. 
Purpose of the Meeting 
The purpose of the Meeting is for the Disinterested Osisko
Shareholders to consider and, if deemed advisable, to pass, with or without
variation, the Share Issuance Resolution, the full text of which is set out in
Schedule "A" – "Resolutions to be Approved at the Meeting" to this
Circular. The Share Issuance Resolution is an ordinary resolution approving (i)
the issuance of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares consisting of (x) 30,906,594 Osisko
Shares to be issued as the Share Consideration, and (y) 19,272,820 Osisko Shares
to be issued pursuant to the Private Placement (including 385,457 Osisko Shares
to be issued on account of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares),
and (ii) the entering into of the Voting Agreement. 
Approval of the Share Issuance Resolution is required (i) in
accordance with Section 611(c) of the TSX Company Manual as the number of Osisko
Shares issued or issuable in payment of the Share Consideration and pursuant to
the Private Placement exceeds 25% of the number of Osisko Shares outstanding on
a non-diluted basis, and (ii) as the Board and management may have a potential
interest in, or derive a potential benefit from, the Voting Agreement. 
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders will be asked to approve the
Share Issuance Resolution authorizing (i) the issuance of 50,179,414 Osisko
Shares, consisting of (x) the Share Consideration to be issued to the Orion
Parties, and (y) the Private Placement Shares, and (ii) the entering into of the
Voting Agreement. 
If the Share Issuance Resolution is not approved by the
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders at the Meeting, then the Acquisition and
Private Placement cannot be completed. 
Management of Osisko and the Board recommend that
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders vote FOR the Share
Issuance Resolution. 
Osisko Shareholders Entitled to Vote 
The Board has fixed June 19, 2017 as the Record Date for
determining the Osisko Shareholders who are entitled to receive notice of and
vote at the Meeting. Only Registered Osisko Shareholders whose names have been
entered in the registers of Osisko as at the close of business (5:00 p.m.
(Montréal time)) on the Record Date will be entitled to receive notice of and
vote at the Meeting. No other Osisko Shareholders are entitled to vote at the
Meeting. 
As at June 19, 2017, the Record Date, 106,735,091 Osisko Shares
were issued and outstanding. Each Osisko Share outstanding on the Record Date
carries the right to one vote at the Meeting, provided, however, that the
1,414,995 Osisko Shares (representing approximately 1.3% of the issued and
outstanding Osisko Shares as at the Record Date) held by Interested Osisko
Shareholders (being the directors and executive officers of Osisko) are not
entitled to vote on the Share Issuance Resolution. 
To the knowledge of the directors and executive officers of
Osisko and according to the latest data available, at the date hereof, there is
only one Osisko Shareholder owning, directly or indirectly, or exercising
control or direction over more than 10% of the voting rights attached to all
outstanding Osisko Shares. 
21 

 
 Name of Osisko Shareholder 
 Number of Osisko Shares 
 Percentage of Outstanding
 Osisko Shares 
 
 Van Eck Associates Corporation(1) 
 18,557,593(1) 
 17.4%(1)

____________________
Note: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Based on the alternative monthly report filed by Van Eck
 Associates Corporation on June 7, 2017, using figures as of May 31, 2017.
 Van Eck Associates Corporation relied on aggregation relief provided by
 Section 5.1 of Part 5 of National Instrument 62-103 – The Early Warning
 System and Related Take-Over Bid and Insider Reporting Issues in
 respect of the securities disclosed in the alternative monthly report
 filed for the exchange traded fund business unit.
Each Registered Osisko Shareholder has the right to appoint
as proxyholder a person or company other than the persons designated by
management of Osisko (the "Management Proxyholders") in the
enclosed Proxy and to attend and act on the Osisko Shareholder's
behalf at the Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, by striking
out the names of the Management Proxyholders and by inserting the desired
person's name in the blank space provided or by executing a proxy in a
form similar to the enclosed Proxy. 
Voting By Registered Osisko Shareholders
The following instructions are for Registered Osisko
Shareholders only. If you are a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder, please read
the information under the heading "General Proxy Information – Voting by
Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders" below and follow your nominee's (bank,
trust company, securities broker or other nominee) instructions on how to vote
your Osisko Shares. 
Voting in Person 
Registered Osisko Shareholders who attend the Meeting may vote
in person. If you are a Registered Osisko Shareholder, to ensure your vote is
counted, you should complete and return the enclosed Proxy as soon as possible
even if you plan to attend the Meeting in person. Even if you return a Proxy,
you can still attend the Meeting and vote in person, in which case you will need
to instruct the scrutineer at the Meeting to cancel your Proxy. 
Voting by Proxy 
If you are a Registered Osisko Shareholder but do not plan to
attend the Meeting, you may vote by using a proxy to appoint someone to attend
the Meeting as your proxyholder. 
What do I need to do now in order to vote at the
Meeting? 
You should carefully read and consider the information
contained in this Circular. Registered Osisko Shareholders should then complete,
sign and date the enclosed Proxy and return the form in the enclosed return
envelope or by facsimile as indicated in the Proxy as soon as possible so that
your Osisko Shares may be represented at the Meeting. Alternatively, Registered
Osisko Shareholders may vote over the telephone at: 1-888-489-7352 (North
American toll free); or online at: www.cstvotemyproxy.com using the
control number found on the Proxy. 
What is a Proxy? 
A Proxy is a document that authorizes another person to attend
the Meeting and cast votes at the Meeting on behalf of a Registered Osisko
Shareholder. If you are a Registered Osisko Shareholder, you can use the Proxy
accompanying this Circular. You may also use any other legal form of Proxy. 
How do I deposit a Proxy? 
You can either return a duly completed and executed Proxy to
the Transfer Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) on July 27, 2017, or
not later than 48 hours (other than a Saturday, Sunday or holiday) immediately
preceding the time of the Meeting (as it may be adjourned or postponed
from time to time). Alternatively, Registered Osisko Shareholders may submit
their Proxy by fax to: 1-866-781-3111 (North American Toll Free) or 416-368-2502
(outside North America); by telephone at: 1-888-489-7352; online at:
www.cstvotemyproxy.com; or scan and email to proxy@canstockta.com. The
deadline for the deposit of proxies may be waived or extended by the Chair of
the Meeting at his discretion, without notice. 
22 

How will a proxyholder vote? 
If you mark on the Proxy how you want to vote on a particular
issue (by checking FOR or AGAINST, as applicable), your
proxyholder must vote your Osisko Shares as instructed.
If you do NOT mark on the Proxy how you want to vote
on a particular matter, your proxyholder will have the discretion to vote your
Osisko Shares as he or she sees fit. If your Proxy does not specify how to vote
on the Share Issuance Resolution and you have authorized the persons named in
the accompanying Proxy (who are officers and/or directors of Osisko) to act as
your proxyholder, your Osisko Shares will be voted at the Meeting
FOR the Share Issuance Resolution.
If any amendments are proposed to the Share Issuance
Resolution, or if any other matters properly arise at the Meeting in relation to
the Share Issuance Resolution, your proxyholder will have the discretion to vote
your Osisko Shares as he or she sees fit. 
Should I send in my Proxy now? 
Yes. To ensure the Share Issuance Resolution is passed, you
should complete and submit the applicable enclosed Proxy or, if applicable,
provide your nominee (bank, trust company, securities broker or other nominee)
with voting instructions. See "General Proxy Information – Voting by
Registered Osisko Shareholders – Voting by Proxy". 
Can I revoke a Proxy or voting instruction? 
Yes. If you are a Registered Osisko Shareholder and have
returned a Proxy, you may revoke it by: 

 
 
 1) 
 
 completing and signing another Proxy with a later date
 and delivering it to CST Trust Company, by mail or courier at 2001
 Robert-Bourassa Blvd., Suite 1600, Montréal, Québec, H3A 2A6, before: (a)
 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) on July 27, 2017; or (b) if the Meeting is
 adjourned, 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) before the
 day to which the Meeting is adjourned;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2) 
 
 delivering a written statement revoking the original
 Proxy or voting instruction, signed by you or your authorized
 representative, to:

 
 
 (a) 
 
 André Le Bel, Vice President, Legal Affairs and Corporate
 Secretary of Osisko, by mail or courier at 1100 Avenue des
 Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 2S2,
 before the close of business on July 28, 2017 or, if the Meeting is
 adjourned, up to the close of business on the last Business Day before the
 day to which the Meeting is adjourned; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 the Chair of the Meeting before the Meeting begins or, if
 the Meeting is adjourned, before the adjourned Meeting begins;
 or

 
 
 3) 
 
 any other manner permitted by
law.
If you are a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder, contact your
nominee. 
Are Osisko Shareholders entitled to dissent rights? 
Osisko Shareholders are not entitled to exercise dissent rights
in respect of the Share Issuance Resolution.
23 

Who can help answer my questions? 
Osisko Shareholders who would like additional copies, without
charge, of this Circular or have additional questions about the Acquisition,
including the procedures for voting Osisko Shares, should contact their nominee
(bank, trust company, securities broker or other nominee) or Laurel Hill
Advisory Group as indicated below. In addition, Laurel Hill Advisory Group is
available to answer any questions you might have in respect of the information
contained in this Circular. 
Osisko Shareholders may contact Laurel Hill Advisory Group, the
Proxy Solicitation Agent, by telephone at: 1-877-452-7184 (North American toll
free) or 416-304-0211 (collect outside North America); or by email at:
assistance@laurelhill.com. 
Voting By Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders

You are a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder (as opposed to a
Registered Osisko Shareholder) if your Osisko Shares are held on your behalf, or
for your account, by a nominee (bank, trust company, securities broker or other
nominee). In accordance with Securities Laws, Osisko has distributed copies of
the Notice of Meeting and this Circular to the clearing agencies and
intermediaries for onward distribution to Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders.
Intermediaries are required to forward the Notice of Meeting and this Circular
to Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders unless a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder
has waived the right to receive them. Typically, intermediaries will use a
service company to forward such materials to Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders.
The majority of intermediaries now delegate responsibility for obtaining
instructions from clients to Broadridge. 
Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders will receive from an
intermediary either voting instruction forms or, less frequently, forms of
proxy. The purpose of these forms is to permit Non-Registered Osisko
Shareholders to direct the voting of the Osisko Shares they beneficially own.
Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders should follow the procedures set out below,
depending on which type of form they receive. Osisko will reimburse
intermediaries for permitted reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses
incurred by them in mailing proxy materials to Non-Registered Osisko
Shareholders of Osisko. Osisko has elected to pay for the delivery of Meeting
materials to "objecting beneficial owners" of Osisko Shares. 
Voting Instruction Form

In most cases, a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder will
receive, as part of the materials for the Meeting, a voting instruction form. If
the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder does not wish to attend and vote at the
Meeting in person (or have another person attend and vote on the Non-Registered
Osisko Shareholder's behalf), the voting instruction form must be completed,
signed and returned in accordance with the directions on the form. If a
Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder wishes to attend and vote at the Meeting in
person (or have another person attend and vote on the Non-Registered Osisko
Shareholder's behalf), the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder must complete, sign
and return the voting instruction form in accordance with the directions
provided. 
Additionally, there are two kinds of Non-Registered Osisko
Shareholders: (i) those who object to their name being made known to the issuers
of securities which they own, known as objecting beneficial owners or "OBOs";
and (ii) those who do not object to their name being made known to the issuers
of securities which they own, known as non-objecting beneficial owners or
"NOBOs". Osisko may utilize the Broadridge QuickVote™ service to assist
Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders that are NOBOs with voting their Osisko
Shares. NOBOs may be contacted by Laurel Hill Advisory Group to conveniently
obtain a vote directly over the telephone. 
Forms of Proxy 
Less frequently, a Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder will
receive, as part of the materials for the Meeting, forms of proxy that have
already been signed by the intermediary (typically by a facsimile, stamped
signature) which is restricted as to the number of Osisko Shares beneficially
owned by the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder but which is otherwise
uncompleted. If the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder does not wish to attend
and vote at the Meeting in person (or have another person attend and vote on the
Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder's behalf), the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder must complete a Proxy and
deliver it to the Transfer Agent, CST Trust Company, not later than 9:00 a.m.
(Montréal time) on July 27, 2017, or not later than 48 hours (other than a
Saturday, Sunday or holiday) immediately preceding the date of the Meeting (as
it may be adjourned or postponed from time to time). The time limit for the
deposit of Proxies may be waived or extended by the Chair of the Meeting at his
discretion, without notice.
24 

Only Registered Osisko Shareholders or the persons they appoint
 as their proxies are permitted to vote at the Meeting. If a Non-Registered
 Osisko Shareholder wishes to attend and vote at the Meeting in person (or have
 another person attend and vote on the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder's
 behalf), the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder must strike out the names of the
 persons named in the Proxy and insert the Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder's
 (or such other person's) name in the blank space provided and return the Proxy
in accordance with the instructions provided by the intermediary. 
Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders should follow the
instructions on the forms they receive and contact their intermediaries or
Laurel Hill Advisory Group, the Proxy Solicitation Agent, by telephone at:
1-877-452-7184 (North American toll free) or 416-304-0211 (collect outside North
America); or by email at: assistance@laurelhill.com.

Solicitation of Proxies 
Whether or not you plan to attend the Meeting, management of
Osisko, with the support of the Board, requests that you fill out your Proxy or
Proxies to ensure your votes are cast at the Meeting. This solicitation of your
Proxy or Proxies (your vote) is made on behalf of management of Osisko. 
It is expected that the solicitation of proxies will be made
primarily by mail, but proxies may also be solicited personally or by telephone,
email, internet, fax or other electronic or other means of communication by
directors, officers, employees, agents or other representatives of Osisko.
Osisko has retained Laurel Hill Advisory Group, the Proxy Solicitation Agent, to
assist in the solicitation of proxies. In connection with these services, Laurel
Hill Advisory Group is expected to receive a fee of C$50,000 plus reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses. The costs of solicitation of proxies will be borne by
Osisko. 
THE ACQUISITION 
Overview 
The purpose of the Acquisition Agreement is to effect the
Acquisition by Osisko of the Acquired Assets. Subject to the terms and
conditions of the Acquisition Agreement, Osisko will acquire, directly or
through the acquisition of shares or other equity ownership interests of
entities owned by the Orion Parties, all of the right, title and interest of the
Orion Parties in 74 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes. 
Under the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Orion Parties
will receive, in exchange for the sale of the Acquired Assets, consideration
comprised of (i) the Cash Consideration, and (ii) the Share Consideration. 
In connection with the Acquisition, Osisko will complete a
concurrent Private Placement to fund a portion of the Cash Consideration through
the issuance of 18,887,363 Osisko Shares at a price of C$14.56 per Osisko Share,
for aggregate gross proceeds of C$275 million. CDP (C$200 million or 13,736,264
Osisko Shares) and the Fonds F.T.Q. (C$75 million or 5,151,099 Osisko Shares)
are the two subscribers under the Private Placement. The Private Placement is
subject to a seven percent capital commitment fee payable by Osisko partially in
cash (five percent) and partially in Osisko Shares (two percent).
The aggregate gross proceeds of the Private Placement will be
used, along with a draw of approximately C$150 million under Osisko's revolving
credit facility with National Bank of Canada and Bank of Montréal and
approximately C$250 million of existing cash reserves, to fund the Cash
Consideration. 
25 

Background to the Acquisition 
The following is a summary of the principal meetings,
discussions and activities that preceded the execution of the Acquisition
Agreement, and the subsequent public announcement of the Acquisition. 
In early October 2016, Messrs. Sean Roosen and Bryan Coates,
the Chief Executive Officer and President, respectively, of Osisko, met with
Messrs. Oskar Lewnowski and Istvan Zollei, representatives of the Orion Parties,
to discuss the potential sale of the Orion Parties' royalty, stream and offtake
assets, as well as possible joint investment opportunities that may exist
between the parties. Mr. Lewnowski indicated the Orion Parties' potential
interest in monetizing the royalty, stream and offtake portfolio held by the
Orion Funds. 
On November 18, 2016, Osisko sent a letter to the Orion Parties
outlining its potential interest in acquiring the portfolio of royalty, stream
and offtake assets held by the Orion Funds, directly or indirectly, and
requesting that the parties enter into a period of exclusivity during which
Osisko would be permitted to conduct due diligence on the assets in the
portfolio and decide whether to submit an offer to the Orion Parties. The Orion
Parties indicated that they were not in a position to begin sharing information
regarding their portfolio of assets, nor were they ready to enter into an
exclusivity period with Osisko, however they acknowledged Osisko's interest in
the assets. 
In early January 2017, a representative from CIBC, financial
advisor to the Orion Parties, contacted Osisko in order to set up a preliminary
meeting to discuss the process for the potential sale of the portfolio of
royalty, stream and offtake assets held by the Orion Funds, directly or
indirectly. This meeting was attended by representatives from Osisko (Messrs.
Roosen, Coates and de la Plante), CIBC (Messrs. Gratias and Dugaro) and Messrs.
Lewnowski and Silver on behalf of the Orion Parties, with Mr. Silver taking the
lead in discussing the portfolio and describing the sale process. 
On January 21, 2017, Osisko entered into a confidentiality
agreement with the Orion Funds, and was provided access to a data room
containing information with respect to the portfolio. Osisko conducted its due
diligence review from January 22, 2017 to June 4, 2017, including reviewing
materials in the data room, having discussions with the principals of the Orion
Parties as well as its financial advisors, making site visits with respect to
certain assets, and engaging in discussions with management of certain of the
projects/mines over which the Orion Parties' royalties, streams and offtake
agreements are held in the portfolio. 
In January 2017, Maxit Capital was retained to render financial
advisory services to Osisko and the Board in connection with the proposed
Acquisition and, to the extent required, to provide an opinion as to the
fairness, from a financial point of view, to Osisko of the consideration to be
paid to the Orion Parties in connection with the proposed Acquisition. 
Early in the process Osisko entered into discussions with
representatives from the Caisse and the Fonds F.T.Q. and, at a later date, with
the administrative agent of its credit facility, National Bank Financial, in
order to determine the most effective way to finance a potential acquisition of
the assets held by the Orion Parties. Both the Caisse and the Fonds F.T.Q. were
interested in providing a portion of the acquisition price by way of equity
investment. Osisko also engaged in discussions with its financial advisors early
on and were assisted in their diligence process by their financial advisors.

On February 27, 2017, Osisko submitted to CIBC the indicative
terms pursuant to which Osisko would be prepared to proceed in the process.
Osisko received feedback on its offer from CIBC on March 1, 2017. 
As part of its on-going due diligence review, on March 27, 2017
the Osisko team, along with a representative of the Fonds F.T.Q., met with the
senior management of the Orion Parties and representatives from CIBC in New York
City to receive a presentation and ask detailed questions on the business and
its assets. 
Throughout the process, management of Osisko kept the Board
informed and up to date. Presentations were made to the Board in connection with
the proposed acquisition, the assets to be acquired and the results of Osisko's
due diligence review. At regularly scheduled Board meetings and at meetings held
specifically to review the business and its assets and terms of the proposed
offer, management kept its Board fully informed. 
26 

On April 20, 2017, a meeting of the Board was held during which
the directors (i) received a detailed presentation on the portfolio of assets
held by the Orion Parties, (ii) reviewed a report from Maxit Capital on possible
transaction terms and a report from BMO Capital Markets on the impact of the
proposed transaction on Osisko, and (iii) discussed the financing of the
potential transaction with the Orion Parties. The Board was supportive of
management moving forward with a proposed transaction with the Orion Parties.

On May 3, 2017, management of Osisko presented its Board with
the terms of its proposed offer to the Orion Parties, which the Board approved,
and on May 8, 2017, Osisko submitted its proposed offer.
On May 12, 2017, representatives from CIBC, Messrs. Boyd and
Gratias, provided feedback on Osisko's proposal and, on May 15, 2017, Mr. Singh
of Maxit Capital met with Messrs. Boyd and Gratias from CIBC to further discuss
Osisko's proposal, including pricing, transaction terms and exclusivity. 
From May 12 to May 22, 2017, representatives from Osisko and
the Orion Parties held several discussions. On May 22, 2017, Mr. Lewnowski, on
behalf of the Orion Parties, and Messrs. Roosen and Coates, on behalf of Osisko,
agreed on an acquisition price of C$1.125 billion for the Acquired Assets,
payable in cash (C$675 million) and Osisko Shares (C$450 million), subject to
investment committee and board approvals, and negotiation of the Acquisition
Agreement, the Shareholder Participation Agreement and the Voting Agreement. Mr.
Lewnowski recommended to the investment committee of Orion Mine Finance
Management I Limited the approval of the proposed terms of the transaction and
the entering into of an exclusivity agreement with Osisko until June 9, 2017 in
order to finalize and enter into the Acquisition Agreement and agree to the form
of Shareholder Participation Agreement and Voting Agreement. 
Between May 22, 2017 and June 4, 2017, management of Osisko and
the Orion Parties, with the assistance of their respective legal counsel,
negotiated the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Shareholder Participation
Agreement and the Voting Agreement, and Osisko finalized the terms of the
Subscription Agreements. 
On June 3, 2017, Osisko retained the services of National Bank
of Canada to provide advice to the Board with respect to the issuance of Osisko
Shares to CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. 
On June 4, 2017, a meeting of the Board was convened with legal
and financial advisors. During the meeting, the Board was informed that an
agreement in principle had been reached between Osisko and the Orion Parties,
and a summary of the final terms and conditions of the proposed transaction, the
Acquisition Agreement (including the form of the Shareholder Participation
Agreement and the Voting Agreement) and the Subscription Agreements (including
the form of the Investor Rights Agreement) were provided by management and legal
counsel to the Board. Maxit Capital made a presentation to the Board and
provided its oral fairness opinion (subsequently confirmed in writing) that, on
the basis of the assumptions, limitations and qualifications to be set forth in
the written opinion subsequently delivered by them, as of the date of the
opinion, the consideration to be paid by Osisko pursuant to the Acquisition
Agreement is fair, from a financial point of view, to Osisko. 
In light of the advice, reports and opinions it had received
(including the oral fairness opinion from Maxit Capital delivered to the Board),
and following further discussion, the Board unanimously determined that the
Acquisition and concurrent Private Placement were in the best interest of Osisko
and recommended that the Osisko Shareholders vote in favour of the Share
Issuance Resolution. The Board also authorized, among other things, Osisko to:
(i) enter into the Acquisition Agreement; (ii) enter into the Subscription
Agreements; and (iii) call and hold a special meeting of Osisko Shareholders to
consider the Share Issuance Resolution. 
The Acquisition Agreement and the related documents were
executed by the Parties effective June 4, 2017, and Osisko concurrently entered
into the Subscription Agreements with CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. with respect to
the Private Placement. Osisko then issued a press release before the opening of
markets on the morning of June 5, 2017 announcing the Acquisition and the
Private Placement. 
27 

Recommendation of the Board 
After careful consideration, including a thorough review of the
Acquisition Agreement and receiving the oral fairness opinion of Maxit Capital
delivered to the Board (subsequently confirmed in writing), as well as a
thorough review of other matters, including those discussed below, the Board
unanimously determined that the Acquisition is in the best interests of Osisko.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously approved the Acquisition Agreement and
unanimously recommends that Disinterested Osisko Shareholders vote
FOR the Share Issuance Resolution. 
Reasons for the Recommendation of the Board

In the course of the Board's evaluation of the Acquisition, the
Board and/or senior management consulted with its financial advisors, Maxit
Capital, BMO Capital Markets and National Bank of Canada,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, and its legal counsel, who performed financial,
technical and legal due diligence with the help of its advisors and experts on,
among other things, the Orion Parties and the Acquired Assets and considered a
number of factors, including, among others, the following: 

 
 • 
 
 Strength of the Resulting Company. If the
 Acquisition is completed, the market capitalization of the Resulting
 Company is expected to be approximately C$2.3 billion (based on the price
 of C$14.56 per Osisko Share used in valuing the Share Consideration and
 issue price of the Private Placement Shares), immediately creating a
 growth-oriented, world class gold-focused royalty and streaming company
 with five cornerstone assets, four of which are Canadian. The Acquisition
 meaningfully increases the size and scale of Osisko's platform, which is
 expected to enhance its competitive positioning and access to capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Diversification of Assets. If the Acquisition is
 completed, shareholders of the Resulting Company will benefit from a
 diversified portfolio of assets with less dependence on specific assets.
 The Acquisition adds 74 assets, including 61 royalties, seven precious
 metal offtakes and six streams, diversifies Osisko's existing cash flowing
 asset base and enhances the Resulting Company's development and
 exploration pipeline. The Resulting Company's portfolio of assets would
 include, among other things, the 5% NSR royalty on the producing Canadian
 Malartic mine, the sliding-scale 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the producing
 Éléonore mine, the 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard mine, the 4.0% gold
 and silver stream on the Brucejack mine, and the 100% silver stream on the
 Mantos Blancos mine. For more information on the Acquired Assets, see
 Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of
 June 28, 2017". 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Immediately Accretive to Cash Flow. The
 Acquisition, which increases the number of Osisko Shares outstanding by
 less than 50%, doubles Osisko's near-term cash flow and more than triples
 Osisko's cash flowing assets from five assets to 16 assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Industry Leading Production and Cash Flow Growth.
 The Acquisition will provide Osisko with an unparalleled growth
 pipeline with expected forecasted production of over 100,000 gold
 equivalent ounces in 2018 growing to over 140,000 gold equivalent ounces
 by 2023, and pro forma cash flow growth of 10% per annum from 2017
 to 2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Addition of Three Cornerstone Assets. Stream
 assets from the Renard, Mantos Blancos and Brucejack mines complement
 Osisko's existing cornerstone NSR royalties on the world class Canadian
 Malartic and Éléonore mines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Maintains Precious Metals Focus. Osisko's pro
 forma net present value and cash flow will be over 90% from precious
 metal assets (including diamonds). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Americas Focused Portfolio. Over 80% of combined
 cash flow will come from North America and over 90% of combined cash flow
 will come from the Americas. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Low Geopolitical Risk. The Resulting Company's
 cornerstone assets will primarily be located in Canada, predominantly in
 Québec, resulting in a low geopolitical risk portfolio.

28 

 
 • 
 
 Financial Position. The Resulting Company is
 expected to have greater balance sheet strength and financial flexibility,
 with approximately C$100 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term
 investments, approximately C$450 million in investments, and C$200 million
 in debt. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Enhanced Market Profile. The increased market
 capitalization and increased trading liquidity upon completion of the
 Acquisition is expected to broaden the Resulting Company's investor appeal
 with enhanced market and analyst coverage, and provides strong potential
 for re-rating of the Osisko Shares. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Maxit Fairness Opinion. The oral fairness opinion
 of Maxit Capital delivered to the Board (subsequently confirmed in
 writing) to the effect that, as of the date of the Maxit Fairness Opinion,
 and based upon and subject to the assumptions, limitations and
 qualifications set forth in the written Maxit Fairness Opinion, the
 Purchase Price to be paid by Osisko pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement
 is fair, from a financial point of view, to Osisko. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Shareholder Approval. The Share Issuance
 Resolution must be approved by at least a majority of the votes cast by
 the Disinterested Osisko Shareholders at the Meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Limited Conditionality. There are a limited number
 of conditions, beyond approval of the Share Issuance Resolution, required
 for the completion of the Acquisition, which the Board expects to have
 satisfied in due course. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Shareholder Participation Agreement and Voting
 Agreement. In connection with the Acquisition Closing, the Designated
 Orion Shareholders shall enter into the Shareholder Participation
 Agreement and the Voting Agreement pursuant to which, among other things,
 the Designated Orion Shareholders will agree to certain terms and
 conditions in connection with their ownership of the Osisko Shares
 comprising the Share Consideration. The Shareholder Participation
 Agreement and the Voting Agreement provide additional protection for the
 Osisko Shareholders. See "The Shareholder Participation Agreement"
 and "The Voting Agreement". 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Evaluation and Analysis. The Board has given
 lengthy consideration to the business, operations, assets, financial
 condition, operating results and prospects for the Resulting Company as
 well as current industry, economic and market conditions and related
 risks. 
See "The Acquisition – Reasons for the Recommendation of the
Board", "The Acquisition – Opinion of Maxit Capital", Schedule "C" –
"Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017" and Schedule "E" –
"Information Concerning the Resulting Company as of June 28, 2017" in
this Circular. 
The Board's reasons for recommending the Acquisition include
certain assumptions relating to forward-looking information, and such
information and assumptions are subject to various risks. See "Cautionary
Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information" and "Risk Factors –
Risks Relating to the Acquisition" in this Circular. 
The foregoing summary of the information and factors considered
by the Board is not intended to be exhaustive. In view of the variety of factors
and the amount of information considered in connection with its evaluation of
the Acquisition, the Board did not find it practical to, and did not, quantify
or otherwise attempt to assign any relative weighting to each specific factor
considered in reaching its respective conclusion and recommendation. All Board
members approved the Acquisition, which was presented at the June 4, 2017
meeting. 
The Board's recommendation was made after considering all of
the above-noted factors and in light of the Board's knowledge of the business,
financial condition and prospects of Osisko, and was also based on the advice of
financial advisors and legal advisors to the Board. 
Opinion of Maxit Capital 
Maxit Capital was retained to render financial advisory
services to Osisko and the Board and provide an opinion as to the fairness to
Osisko, from a financial point of view, of the Purchase Price to be paid by
Osisko pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement. Maxit Capital delivered the Maxit
Fairness Opinion concluding that, as at the date thereof and subject to the
assumptions, limitations and qualifications contained therein, the Purchase
Price to be paid by Osisko pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement is fair, from a
financial point of view, to Osisko. The full text of the Maxit Fairness Opinion,
setting out the assumptions made, matters considered and limitations and
qualifications on the review undertaken in connection with the Maxit Fairness
Opinion, is attached as Schedule "B" – "Fairness Opinion of Maxit
Capital" to this Circular.
29 

The summary of the Maxit Fairness Opinion described in this
 Circular is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Maxit
Fairness Opinion. 
Under the engagement letter with Maxit Capital, Osisko has
agreed to pay a fee to Maxit Capital for its services. A portion of the fees
payable to Maxit Capital are contingent on the completion of the Acquisition and
a portion of such fees are payable to Maxit Capital in respect of the Maxit
Fairness Opinion (irrespective of the substance or conclusions of the Maxit
Fairness Opinion). Osisko has also agreed to reimburse Maxit Capital for certain
out-of-pocket expenses and to indemnify Maxit Capital and certain related
parties against certain liabilities in connection with their engagement. 
The Maxit Fairness Opinion is not a recommendation to any
Osisko Shareholder as to how to vote or act on any matter relating to the
Acquisition. The Maxit Fairness Opinion was one of a number of factors taken
into consideration by the Board in making its unanimous determination to
recommend that Osisko Shareholders vote in favour of the Share Issuance
Resolution. 
The Board urges Osisko Shareholders to read the
Maxit Fairness Opinion carefully and in its entirety. See Schedule "B" –
"Fairness Opinion of Maxit Capital" to this Circular for
the Maxit Fairness Opinion. 
Effects of the Acquisition 
Osisko Shareholders 
As of the date of this Circular, an aggregate of 106,743,944
Osisko Shares were issued and outstanding on a non-diluted basis. An aggregate
of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares are expected to be issued in connection with the
completion of the Acquisition and the Private Placement, which would result in
the Resulting Company having an aggregate of 156,923,358 Osisko Shares
outstanding, on a non-diluted basis. 

 
 
 • 
 
 The 106,743,944 Osisko Shares outstanding as of the date
 hereof are expected to represent, on a non- diluted basis, approximately
 68.0% of the Resulting Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The 30,906,594 Osisko Shares to be issued to the
 Designated Orion Shareholders as the Share Consideration are expected to
 represent, on a non-diluted basis, approximately 19.7% of the Resulting
 Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The 19,272,820 Osisko Shares to be issued to CDP, an
 affiliate of the Caisse, and the Fonds F.T.Q. pursuant to the Private
 Placement (which includes the 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued on
 account of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares) are
 expected to represent, on a non-diluted basis, approximately 12.3% of the
 Resulting Company (excluding the 4,997,497 Osisko Shares and 3,384,264
 Osisko Shares held by the Caisse, together with its affiliates, and the
 Fonds F.T.Q., respectively, as of the date hereof).

Following the completion of the Acquisition, Mr. Oskar
Lewnowski, Chief Investment Officer of Orion Resource Partners (USA) LP, will
join the Board. Mr. Lewnowski is the founder of Orion Resource Partners (USA) LP
and has more than 20 years of experience in mine financing, metals trading, and
mergers and acquisitions. As part of the Investor Rights Agreement, CDP will
also have the right to nominate one director to the Board. 
30 

Corporate Structure 
The Acquisition will result in Orion TitheCo Limited becoming a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Osisko. Orion TitheCo Limited holds the Brucejack
Stream and the Mantos Blancos Stream, directly or indirectly. In addition,
Osisko will acquire the Renard Stream directly. Set forth below is the expected
corporate structure of the Resulting Company, which depicts how the material
assets of the Resulting Company are expected to be held following the completion
of the Acquisition. 

 
____________________
Note: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Osisko and its subsidiaries have additional interests in
 other subsidiaries that do not meet the materiality thresholds for
 disclosure set out in Form 51-102F2 of the Canadian Securities
 Administrators.
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 The Brucejack Stream is held by Orion Co-Investments II
 (Stream) Limited, which is expected to be a non-material wholly-owned
 subsidiary of Osisko and Orion TitheCo Limited. The Mantos Blancos Stream
 is held by Orion TitheCo Limited.
Shareholder and Regulatory Approvals 
Osisko Shareholder Approval

Approval of the Share Issuance Resolution is required (i) in
accordance with Section 611(c) of the TSX Company Manual as the number of Osisko
Shares issuable in payment of the Share Consideration and pursuant to the
Private Placement exceeds 25% of the number of Osisko Shares outstanding on a
non-diluted basis. If the Acquisition is completed, 50,179,414 Osisko Shares
will be issued, consisting of (x) 30,906,594 Osisko Shares to be issued as the
Share Consideration, and (y) 19,272,820 Osisko Shares to be issued pursuant to
the Private Placement (including 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued on account
of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares), representing, in the
aggregate, approximately 47.0% of the number of issued and outstanding Osisko
Shares as of the date hereof (being 106,743,944 Osisko Shares), and (ii) as the
Board and management may have a potential interest in, or derive a potential
benefit from, the Voting Agreement. A summary of the material terms of the
Voting Agreement is set out under the heading "The Voting Agreement" in
this Circular and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the text of the
Voting Agreement. 
31 

The Share Issuance Resolution must be approved, with or without
variation, by at least a majority of the votes cast by Disinterested Osisko
Shareholders present in person or represented by proxy at the Meeting. The
complete text of the Share Issuance Resolution to be presented to the Meeting is
set forth in Schedule "A" – "Resolutions to be Approved at the Meeting"
to this Circular. 
The Acquisition Agreement provides that the Share Issuance
Resolution must be approved as a condition precedent to the completion of the
Acquisition. 
The Board and management recommend that Disinterested Osisko
Shareholders VOTE FOR the Share Issuance Resolution. In the
absence of instructions to the contrary, the persons whose names appear in the
attached Proxy intend to VOTE FOR the Share Issuance
Resolution. 
If the Share Issuance Resolution does not receive the requisite
approval, the Acquisition will not proceed. 
Regulatory Approvals 
The Acquisition Agreement provides that receipt of all required
regulatory approvals, including Canadian Competition Act Approval and receipt of
conditional approval of the TSX and NYSE for the listing of the Osisko Shares
issuable pursuant to the Acquisition and the Private Placement, is a condition
precedent to the Acquisition becoming effective. 
Canadian Competition Act Approval

The Acquisition is a "notifiable transaction" for the purposes
of Part IX of the Competition Act. When a transaction is a notifiable
transaction under the Competition Act, certain prescribed information must be
provided to the Commissioner of Competition (Canada) under Part IX of the
Competition Act and the transaction may not be completed until the expiry,
waiver or termination of the applicable waiting period. Where a notification is
made, the waiting period is 30 calendar days after the day on which the parties
to the transaction submit the prescribed information, provided that, before the
expiry of this period, the Commissioner of Competition (Canada) has not notified
the parties that he requires additional information that is relevant to the
Commissioner of Competition (Canada)'s assessment of the transaction (a
"Supplementary Information Request"). If the Commissioner of Competition
(Canada) provides the Parties with a Supplementary Information Request, the
Parties cannot complete their transaction until 30 calendar days after
compliance with such Supplementary Information Request, provided that there is
no order in effect prohibiting completion at the relevant time. 
In addition to, or in lieu of, a pre-merger notification
filing, parties to a notifiable transaction may apply for an advance ruling
certificate ("ARC") under Section 102 of the Competition Act, which may
be issued when the Commissioner of Competition (Canada) is satisfied that he
would not have sufficient grounds on which to apply to the Competition Tribunal
(the "Tribunal") for an order under Section 92 of the Competition Act.
Further, if the transaction to which the ARC relates is substantially completed
within one year after the ARC is issued, the Commissioner of Competition
(Canada) cannot seek an order of the Tribunal under Section 92 of the
Competition Act in respect of the transaction solely on the basis of information
that is the same or substantially the same as the information on the basis of
which the ARC was issued. If an ARC is not granted, the Commissioner of
Competition (Canada) may waive the pre-merger notification requirement and issue
a No Action Letter confirming that he does not intend, at that time, to make an
application under Section 92 of the Competition Act in respect of the proposed
transaction.
The Commissioner of Competition (Canada) may decide to
challenge the transaction under Section 92 of the Competition Act if he is of
the view that the transaction is likely to prevent or lessen competition
substantially, and may also apply to the Tribunal for an injunction to prevent
its closing pending the Tribunal's determination of his challenge to the
transaction. 
Completion of the Acquisition is subject to the condition that
Canadian Competition Act Approval shall have been obtained and shall remain in
full force and effect on the Acquisition Closing and shall not have been
rescinded. 
32 

Osisko and the Orion Parties have jointly requested that the
Commissioner of Competition (Canada) issue an ARC under Section 102 of the
Competition Act or, alternatively, a No Action Letter together with a request
for a waiver in accordance with section 113(c) of the Competition Act, in
respect of the Acquisition. 
THE ACQUISITION AGREEMENT 
The Acquisition will be carried out pursuant to the Acquisition
Agreement. The following is a summary of the principal terms of the Acquisition
Agreement. This summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in
its entirety by reference to the Acquisition Agreement, the text of which may be
viewed under Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at
www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. This summary may not contain all of the
information about the Acquisition Agreement that is important to Osisko
Shareholders. Osisko Shareholders are encouraged to read the Acquisition
Agreement carefully and in its entirety. 
The Acquisition and the Acquisition
Consideration
The Acquisition Agreement was entered into effective June 4,
2017, pursuant to which Osisko will acquire the Acquired Assets (comprising 74
royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes) from the Orion Parties. Under
the terms and subject to the conditions set out in the Acquisition Agreement, at
the Acquisition Closing, the Orion Parties will convey to Osisko, and Osisko
will purchase from the Orion Parties, the Acquired Assets, for total
consideration comprised of (i) C$675 million in cash, subject to adjustment in
accordance with the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, and (ii) 30,906,594
Osisko Shares, representing a Purchase Price of approximately C$1.125 billion
(assuming a valuation of C$14.56 per Osisko Share). 
Representations and Warranties 
The Acquisition Agreement contains representations and
warranties made by the Orion Parties to Osisko and representations and
warranties made by Osisko to the Orion Parties. These representations and
warranties were made solely for purposes of the Acquisition Agreement and may be
subject to important qualifications and limitations agreed to by the Parties in
connection with negotiating the terms of the Acquisition Agreement. In addition,
some of these representations and warranties are made as of specified dates, are
subject to a contractual standard of materiality or Material Adverse Effect
different from that generally applicable to public disclosure of Osisko, or are
used for the purpose of allocating risk between the Parties to the Acquisition
Agreement. For the foregoing reasons, you should not rely on the representations
and warranties contained in the Acquisition Agreement as statements of factual
information at the time they were made or otherwise. 
The Acquisition Agreement contains certain representations and
warranties of the Orion Parties, relating to, among other things: organization
of the Orion Parties and the Holding Entities; ownership of the Holding
Entities; the royalties, stream instruments and offtake instruments comprising
the Acquired Assets; the authority to enter into and consummate the Acquisition
Agreement and performance of obligations thereunder; litigation; the absence of
conflicts; required consents; restrictions on business activities by the Holding
Entities; statement of royalty revenues; details of purchases for stream
instruments and offtake instruments; assets and liabilities; tax matters; books
and records; contracts; employee benefits; labour and employment; compliances
with laws; winding-up, administration or receivership; voluntary arrangement;
brokers; security; information provided to Osisko; indigenous matters; title;
anti-bribery legislation; and environmental matters. 
The Acquisition Agreement also contains certain representations
and warranties of Osisko relating to, among other things: organization; the
authority to enter into and consummate the Acquisition Agreement;
capitalization; the absence of conflicts; required consents; subsidiaries;
financial statements; undisclosed liabilities; internal controls and financial
reporting; books and records; reporting status; securities laws matters; absence
of cease trade orders; stock exchange compliance; public filings; restrictions
on business activities; confirmation that Osisko is not a "non-Canadian" within
the meaning of the Investment Canada Act; investment representations;
contracts; employee benefits; board approval; compliance with Legal
Requirements; winding up, administration or receivership; voluntary arrangement;
financing requirements; tax matters; environmental matters; indigenous matters;
title; anti-bribery legislation; shareholder and similar agreements and
information provided to the Orion Parties. 
33 

Limited Representations and
Warranties 
Each of Osisko and the Orion Parties have acknowledged and
agreed that except for the representations and warranties made in the
Acquisition Agreement, no express or implied representations or warranties are
or have been made relating to the Acquired Assets or the underlying interests
and all implied representations or warranties of any kind or nature whatsoever
with respect to such assets and interests are expressly excluded to the maximum
extent allowed by law. Except for representations made by the Orion Parties in
the Acquisition Agreement, Osisko acknowledges that it is relying solely upon
its own investigations with respect to the Acquisition, and that the Orion
Parties do not make any representations or warranties with respect to certain
aspects of the assets and interests to be acquired under the Acquisition
Agreement.
Covenants 
Each of the Orion Parties and Osisko have given the other Party
customary covenants including, but not limited to, covenants with respect to:
the handling of confidential material; the delivery of third party consents and
notices by the Orion Parties; taking steps to address tax matters; satisfying
Acquisition closing conditions; the conduct of both Parties during the period of
time between the execution of the Acquisition Agreement and the Acquisition
Closing; the Meeting; this Circular; regulatory approvals; the pre-closing
reorganizations by the Orion Parties; marketing; a transition services
agreement; and notice under the Acquisition Agreement. Certain of these
covenants have been described in more detail below. 
Covenants Regarding the Conduct
of Business
From the date of the Acquisition Agreement to and including the
Acquisition Closing Date, the Orion Parties have agreed that they shall, subject
to certain exceptions as set out in the Acquisition Agreement, among other
things: (i) cause each Holding Entity to conduct its business in the ordinary
and normal course of business; (ii) ensure that no Holding Entity amends or
modifies its charter documents, alters terms and conditions of securities,
creates, authorizes or agrees to issue or grant securities or adopts a plan of
liquidation; (iii) not take any action that would reasonably be expected to have
a Orion Material Adverse Effect; (iv) ensure that there are no amendments or
modifications to the terms of any offtake instrument, royalty instrument or
stream instrument (v) not permit any Holding Entity to declare, set aside, pay
any cash dividend or non-cash distribution payment in respect of its securities
of any class; (vi) not permit any Holding Entity to acquire any business; (vii)
not permit any Holding Entity to grant to any of its employees or contractors an
increase in compensation except in the ordinary course of business; (viii) not
permit any Holding Entity to make any material change in its method of
accounting except as required by law; (ix) not permit any Holding Entity to
incur any indebtedness for borrowed money; (x) not permit any Holding Entity to
grant any additional security over the Acquired Assets, except as contemplated
by the Acquisition Agreement; (xi) not permit any Holding Entity to make any
loans or advances; (xii) not permit any Holding Entity to settle, offer or
propose to settle, compromise, assign or release any material litigation brought
against it or any other Holding Entity; (xiii) not permit any Holding Entity to
enter into any contract creating a joint venture or partnership or effect a
business combination or other similar arrangement; (xiv) provide prompt notice
to Osisko of any resignation, injury, disability or death of any employee or
contractor of a Holding Entity; (xv) ensure no Holding Entity makes any material
change with respect to tax; and (xvi) not permit any Holding Entity to attempt
or agree to any of the restricted matters listed above. 
From the date of the Acquisition Agreement to and including the
Acquisition Closing Date, Osisko has agreed that it shall, among other things:
(i) conduct its business in the ordinary and normal course of business; (ii) not
take any action inconsistent with the Acquisition Agreement or that could
reasonably be expected to have an Osisko Material Adverse Effect; (iii) not
amend or modify its constating documents, alter terms and conditions of
securities, create, authorize or agree to issue or grant securities, other than
as set out in the Acquisition Agreement, or adopt a plan of liquidation; (iv)
not amend or modify the terms of any material contract; (v) not declare, set
aside or pay any cash dividends or non-cash distributions or payment (whether in
securities or property) in respect of any of its securities of any class in
excess of an aggregate of C$15,000,000; (vi) not acquire any business or engage
in any activity that would result in a change of business; (vii) not sell,
transfer, dispose of, lease, encumber, relinquish, abandon, grant any option to
purchase or right of first offer/refusal over any of its material assets; (viii)
not incur any material indebtedness for borrowed money other than the incurrence
of up to C$200,000,000 for purposes of financing a portion of the Cash Consideration; (ix) not assume or guarantee
any material liabilities of any Person; and (x) not attempt or agree to any of
the matters listed above. 
34 

Covenants Regarding Regulatory
Approval
Each of Osisko and the Orion Parties has covenanted to: begin
the process to obtain the regulatory approvals required to complete the
Acquisition as soon as reasonably practicable in respect of Canadian Competition
Act Approval; respond promptly to any request from additional information or
documentary materials made by any Governmental Authority in connection with such
approval; and make any such further filings as may be necessary, proper or
advisable in connection therewith. 
The Parties have also covenanted to cooperate with each other
in connection with the preparation and submission of all documents and
procedures of any nature as may become necessary or desirable pertaining to the
Canadian Competition Act Approval, if required. Each Party shall, among other
things: (i) promptly inform the other party of communication regarding the
approvals; (ii) use reasonable commercial efforts to respond promptly to any
request regarding the approvals; (iii) permit the other party to review in
advance any proposed applications, notices, filings, submissions, undertakings,
correspondence and communication of any nature in respect of obtaining the
approvals and provide the other Party a reasonable opportunity to comment
thereon and agree to consider the comments in good faith; (iv) promptly provide
the other Party with any documents submitted with respect of obtaining the
approvals; (v) not participate in any substantive meeting or discussion with a
Governmental Authority in respect to obtaining the approvals without consulting
the other Party in advance; and (vi) keep the other Party informed of the
status. 
Conditions Precedent to the Acquisition
Agreement 
Conditions in Favour of Osisko

The obligation of Osisko to complete the transactions
contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement is subject to the fulfillment, at or
before the Acquisition Closing (or such other time as set out in the Acquisition
Agreement), by the Orion Parties of, but not limited to, the following
conditions: 

 
 
 • 
 
 the Orion Parties shall have performed and complied in
 all material respects with all covenants and obligations of the
 Acquisition Agreement to be complied with and performed by the Orion
 Parties at or before the Acquisition Closing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the Orion Parties shall have completed a pre-closing
 reorganization, as set out in the Acquisition Agreement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 all representations and warranties of the Orion Parties
 in the Acquisition Agreement shall be materially true and correct as of
 the Acquisition Closing, except to the extent such representations and
 warranties refer to an earlier date or pursuant to changes contemplated by
 this Acquisition Agreement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 there being no pending or threatened third party
 litigation relating to the consummation of the Acquisition Agreement or
 the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement unless it would
 not reasonably be expected to have an Orion Material Adverse Effect;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 certain corporate opinions shall have been addressed and
 delivered to Osisko; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Canadian Competition Act Approval shall have been
 obtained, shall remain in full force and effect and shall not have been
 rescinded as at the Acquisition Closing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko Shareholders shall have approved the issuance of
 the Share Consideration at the Meeting; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the TSX and the NYSE shall have conditionally approved
 listing of the Osisko Shares to be issued as the Share Consideration,
 subject to official notice of issuance; 
35 

 
 
 • 
 
 the Orion Parties shall have caused Orion Fund JV Limited
 to sell its ownership interest in Nanjo Royalties, S. de R.L. de C.V. to
 Osisko on the Acquisition Closing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 no Orion Material Adverse Effect shall have occurred
 since the date of the Acquisition Agreement and the Orion Parties shall
 provide a certificate to such effect; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the Orion Parties shall have caused Orion Resources
 Partners (USA) LP and Orion Merchant, LLC to execute and deliver to Osisko
 a transition services agreement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the Orion Parties shall have caused the Designated Orion
 Shareholders to execute and deliver to Osisko the Shareholder
 Participation Agreement and the Voting Agreement; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the stream instrument in respect of the Mantos Silver
 Stream shall have been amended on terms satisfactory to Osisko and the
 Orion Parties, acting reasonably. 
Conditions in Favour of the Orion
Parties 
The obligation of the Orion Parties to complete the
transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement is also subject to the
fulfillment, at or before the time of Acquisition Closing or other specified
time, of the following additional conditions, including but not limited to: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko shall have performed and complied in all material
 respects with all covenants and obligations of the Acquisition Agreement
 to be complied with and performed by Osisko at or before the Acquisition
 Closing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 all representations and warranties of Osisko in the
 Acquisition Agreement shall be materially true and correct as of the
 Acquisition Closing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 there being no pending or threatened third party
 litigation relating to the consummation of the Acquisition Agreement or
 the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement unless it would
 not reasonably be expected to have an Osisko Material Adverse Effect;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 certain corporate opinions shall have been addressed and
 delivered to the Orion Parties; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Canadian Competition Act Approval shall have been
 obtained, shall remain in full force and effect and shall not have been
 rescinded as at the Acquisition Closing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko Shareholders shall have approved the issuance of
 the Share Consideration at the Meeting; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the TSX and the NYSE shall have conditionally approved
 listing of the Osisko Shares to be issued as the Share Consideration,
 subject to official notice of issuance; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 no Osisko Material Adverse Effect shall have occurred
 since the date of the Acquisition Agreement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko shall have executed and delivered to Orion
 Resource Partners (USA) LP and Orion Merchant, LLC a transition services
 agreement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko shall have executed and delivered to the
 Designated Orion Shareholders the Shareholder Participation Agreement and
 the Voting Agreement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Oskar Lewnowski or such other individual as the Orion
 Parties may designate shall have been appointed to the Board, effective
 upon the Acquisition Closing; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko shall have executed and delivered a creditor
 accession undertaking as set out in the Acquisition Agreement.
 
36 

Termination 
The Acquisition Agreement may be terminated and the
transactions contemplated hereby may be abandoned:

 
 
 • 
 
 by mutual or written consent; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 by Osisko upon written notice to the Orion Parties if any
 of the conditions precedent to be satisfied by the Orion Parties have not
 been satisfied on or before the Acquisition Closing for any reason other
 than a material breach or default by Osisko; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 by the Orion Parties upon written notice to Osisko if any
 of the conditions precedent to be satisfied by Osisko have not been
 satisfied on or before the Acquisition Closing for any reason other than a
 material breach or default by the Orion Parties; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 by either Osisko or the Orion Parties if there shall be
 enacted or made any Legal Requirement that makes consummation of the
 transactions contemplated in the Acquisition Agreement illegal or
 otherwise prohibited as further described in the Acquisition Agreement.
 
If the Acquisition Agreement is terminated pursuant to the
terms in the Acquisition Agreement, all obligations of the Parties thereunder
shall terminate, except for certain obligations specified in the Acquisition
Agreement. Any termination of the Acquisition Agreement shall be without
prejudice to any right or remedy of any Party with respect to a breach of the
Acquisition Agreement by any other Party. 
Indemnification 
Indemnification by the Orion
Parties 
From and after the Acquisition Closing, the Orion Parties shall
severally and individually indemnify and hold harmless Osisko and its respective
affiliates and their respective officers and directors, employees, agents, and
representatives, and any Person claiming by or through any of them, as the case
may be, from and against any and all losses arising out of or resulting from,
among other things: any representations and warranties by the Orion Parties in
the Acquisition Agreement not being true and accurate when made or at the
Acquisition Closing; any failure by the Orion Parties to perform any of their
duties under the Acquisition Agreement; certain indemnified taxes; any employee
obligations to the extent such obligations are not reflected in the
determination of the final Purchase Price; and certain excluded royalties and
shares. 
Indemnification by Osisko

From and after the Acquisition Closing, Osisko shall indemnify
and hold harmless the Orion Parties and their affiliates and their respective
officers and directors, employees, agents, and representatives, and any Person
claiming by or through any of them, as the case may be, from and against any and
all losses arising out of or resulting from, among other things: any
representations and warranties of Osisko not being true and accurate when made
at the Acquisition Closing; any failure by Osisko to perform any of its duties
under the Acquisition Agreement; assumed liabilities relating to the Acquired
Assets; and certain indemnified taxes. 
Limitation on Indemnification
Amounts 
Subject to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, Osisko shall
not be entitled to indemnification for losses related to breaches of certain
representations and warranties unless the aggregate amount of all such losses
exceeds 1% of the Base Purchase Price (the "Threshold Amount"), upon
which Osisko shall be entitled to indemnification only for losses in excess of
the Threshold Amount. In no event shall the indemnification for such losses
exceed an amount equal to 10% of the Base Purchase Price. The foregoing
limitation on indemnification does not apply to certain representations relating
to the Holding Entities and the royalties, stream instruments and offtake
instruments comprising the Acquired Assets. In no event shall the aggregate
losses subject to indemnification exceed the Base Purchase Price. 
37 

Subject to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Orion
Parties shall not be entitled to indemnification for losses related to a breach
of representations and warranties by Osisko unless the aggregate amount of all
losses exceeds an amount equal to C$2,000,000, upon which the Orion Parties
shall be entitled to indemnification only for any such losses in excess of
C$2,000,000. In no event shall the aggregate liability of Osisko for all losses
subject to indemnification exceed C$20,000,000. 
For the purposes of the foregoing indemnity limitations,
Canadian dollar amounts shall be converted into U.S. dollars using the average
of the daily exchange rate posted by the Bank of Canada for the five business
days preceding the date of the Acquisition Agreement.
THE SHAREHOLDER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT 
The following is a summary of the principal terms of the
Shareholder Participation Agreement. This summary does not purport to be
complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Shareholder
Participation Agreement. The text of the Shareholder Participation Agreement
will be available following the Acquisition Closing under Osisko's issuer
profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. 
As a condition to the Acquisition Closing, Osisko and the
Designated Orion Shareholders shall have entered into the Shareholder
Participation Agreement, in substantially the form agreed between the Parties in
the Acquisition Agreement, which sets forth certain rights and obligations of
Osisko and the Designated Orion Shareholders in connection with, among other
things, the Designated Orion Shareholders' ownership of the Osisko Shares
comprising the Share Consideration. 
Governance Rights 
Under the Shareholder Participation Agreement, so long as the
Designated Orion Shareholders hold 10% of the issued and outstanding Osisko
Shares, the Designated Orion Shareholders shall be entitled to nominate one
individual to the Board. The Designated Orion Shareholders' nominee will not be
entitled to participate in certain investment committees that may be formed by
the Board from time to time. 
Standstill and Transaction
Protections 
Pursuant to the Shareholder Participation Agreement, the
Designated Orion Shareholders have agreed that they will not, for a period of
three years from the Acquisition Closing Date, without the prior written consent
of Osisko: (i) acquire voting securities or securities convertible or
exchangeable into voting securities of Osisko; (ii) solicit proxies or otherwise
influence the voting of Osisko Shares; (iii) seek to control or influence the
management, directors or corporate policies of Osisko or obtain additional
representation on the Board; or (iv) engage in any discussions or negotiations
in connection with any business combination or other acquisition transaction or
extraordinary transaction involving Osisko. Further, the Designated Orion
Shareholders have agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, they will not
provide stream, royalty or similar financial assistance to certain
counterparties of the Purchased Assets for a period of three years from the
Acquisition Closing Date. 
Restrictions on Resale of Share
Consideration 
In connection with the Shareholder Participation Agreement, the
Designated Orion Shareholders have agreed, for a period of six months following
the Acquisition Closing Date, that they will not, nor will they permit their
"affiliates" (as such term is defined in the Shareholder Participation
Agreement) to, without the prior written consent of Osisko, directly or
indirectly, offer, transfer, sell, collateralize, grant security over, gift,
assign, convey or otherwise dispose of, participate in any put or call, or
attempt to dispose of, all or any portion of the Share Consideration or any
rights connected thereto or interest therein. The Designated Orion Shareholders
have further agreed, for a period beginning on the date that is six months from
the Acquisition Closing Date and ending on the first anniversary following the
Acquisition Closing Date, that they will not, nor will they permit their
affiliates to, without the prior written consent of Osisko, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld, directly or indirectly, offer, transfer, sell,
collateralize, grant security over, gift, assign, convey or otherwise dispose
of, participate in any put or call, or attempt to dispose of, all or any portion
of the Share Consideration held by the Designated Orion Shareholders, or of any
rights connected thereto or interest therein except for: (i) the disposition of
Osisko Shares representing less than 5% of the then-outstanding Osisko Shares,
subject to certain exceptions; or (ii) by involuntary operation of law. 
38 

If, at any time between the first anniversary of the
 Acquisition Closing Date and the third anniversary of the Acquisition Closing
 Date, the Designated Orion Shareholders or their respective affiliates wish to
 sell or otherwise dispose of a portion of the Share Consideration representing
 5% or more of the then-outstanding Osisko Shares in any six-month period, they
 shall only be permitted to do so: (i) through a broad market distribution
 through the facilities of any stock exchange upon which the Osisko Shares are
 traded or under a prospectus; or (ii) in a private transaction or series of
private transactions, subject to certain conditions. 
The foregoing resale restrictions are subject to the right of
the Designated Orion Shareholders to: (i) at any time, sell or transfer the
Share Consideration among their affiliates, provided such affiliate agrees to be
bound by the terms of the Shareholder Participation Agreement; and (ii)
beginning on the date that is six months following Acquisition Closing Date,
transfer or distribute the Share Consideration to an investor of the Designated
Orion Shareholders or an affiliate of the Designated Orion Shareholders,
provided that no such investor receives more than 5% of the then-outstanding
Osisko Shares. The Designated Orion Shareholders are restricted, at all times,
from selling or transferring the Share Consideration to certain specified
purchasers. 
Additionally, should, at any time following the Acquisition
Closing Date, Osisko determine to proceed with the preparation and filing of a
prospectus in connection with a proposed offering of any of its securities for
cash, in a form and manner that, with appropriate changes, would permit the
Share Consideration to be qualified for distribution under such prospectus, the
Designated Orion Shareholders shall be entitled, subject to compliance with the
terms of the Shareholder Participation Agreement to require that Osisko cause up
to 25% of such offering be completed through the sale of the Share
Consideration. 
Termination of Obligations

Certain of the obligations and covenants of the Designated
Orion Shareholders under the Shareholder Participation Agreement will terminate
upon the occurrence of: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 (i) any acquisition transaction, amalgamation,
 arrangement, merger or other consolidation or combination involving Osisko
 and another person, which results in such other person, including persons
 acting jointly or in concert with such other person, directly or
 indirectly (A) beneficially owning, or exercising control or direction
 over, voting securities of Osisko carrying the right to cast more than 50%
 of the votes attaching to all voting securities of Osisko, or (B)
 acquiring more than 50% of the assets and properties of Osisko on a
 consolidated basis, (ii) a change in more than 50% of the members of the
 Board during any 12-month period or (iii) any other event, transaction or
 series of events or transactions pursuant to which a person acquires
 possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the
 direction of the management and policies of Osisko and/or its consolidated
 assets, whether by contract or otherwise;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 a transaction or series of transactions as a result of
 which Osisko's resources are redirected and the nature of Osisko's
 business of acquiring and managing precious metal and other royalties,
 streams and a direct or indirect interest in mining development businesses
 and properties and similar interests changes, including through the
 acquisition of an interest in another business which represents a material
 amount of Osisko's market value, assets or operations, or which becomes
 the principal enterprise of Osisko, including the transition of the
 principal enterprise of Osisko to the operation of mineral projects,
 subject to certain exceptions;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Osisko makes an assignment for the benefit of its
 creditors;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 a receiver, liquidator or trustee being appointed for
 Osisko or Osisko being adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent, or any petition
 for bankruptcy, reorganization or arrangement pursuant to bankruptcy or
 insolvency legislation applicable to Osisko being filed by or against,
 consented to, or acquiesced in by, Osisko, or any proceeding for the dissolution
or liquidation of Osisko being instituted; 
39 

 
 
 (e) 
 
 Osisko being in material breach of certain obligations
 under the Shareholder Participation Agreement or the Acquisition
 Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Osisko being at any time found to be in material breach
 of certain anti-bribery legislation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Osisko being at any time in material breach or default of
 any securities laws, rules or regulations (including the rules of any
 stock exchange) applicable to Osisko;
provided that such obligations and covenants will not
terminate unless such event is incapable of cure and is not cured by the seventh
day after which Osisko receives notice of such breach, and in the case of (f),
above, the implicated personnel are not terminated within seven days. 
THE VOTING AGREEMENT 
The following is a summary of the principal terms of the Voting
Agreement. This summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in
its entirety by reference to the Voting Agreement. The text of the Voting
Agreement will be available following the Acquisition Closing under Osisko's
issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. 
As a condition to the Acquisition Closing, Osisko and the
Designated Orion Shareholders shall have entered into the Voting Agreement, in
substantially the form agreed between the Parties in the Acquisition Agreement,
pursuant to which the Designated Orion Shareholders have covenanted to vote, or
cause to be voted, all of the Consideration Shares at all meetings of Osisko
Shareholders in respect of certain matters in a manner consistent with the
recommendation made by management of Osisko or the Board, as applicable. 
Pursuant to the terms of the Voting Agreement, until the
earlier of: (x) 18 months from the Acquisition Closing Date, and (y) the date on
which the Designated Orion Shareholders hold less than 5% of the issued and
outstanding Osisko Shares, the Designated Orion Shareholders have covenanted to
vote in favour, or cause to be voted in favour, all of the Consideration Shares
at all meetings of Osisko Shareholders in respect of: (i) the recommendations of
Osisko's management in relation to the election of directors and the appointment
of auditors; (ii) the renewal of any shareholder rights plan in existence as of
the Acquisition Closing Date; (iii) any securities incentive plans recommended
by the Board, provided that the total number of Osisko Shares issued or issuable
under such securities incentive plans, when combined with the total number of
Osisko Shares issued or issuable under all of Osisko's other securities
incentive plans, does not exceed 10% of the issued and outstanding Osisko
Shares, on a non-diluted basis; (iv) any acquisition that is recommended by the
Board for approval by Osisko Shareholders, provided that such acquisition (a)
does not involve an issuance of Osisko Shares for which shareholder approval is
required pursuant to the TSX Company Manual, or (b) is not a "related party
transaction" within the meaning of Multilateral Instrument 61-101 –
Protection of Minority Securityholders in Special Transactions; (v) any
acquisition transaction that would result in a "Change of Control" (as defined
in the Voting Agreement) and that is recommended by the Board for approval by
Osisko Shareholders; and (vi) the approach of the Board on executive
compensation. 
THE SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENTS 
The following is a summary of the principal terms of the
Subscription Agreements. The summary does not purport to be complete and is
qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the CDP Subscription
Agreement and the Fonds F.T.Q. Subscription Agreement, the text of which may be
viewed under Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at
www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. This summary may not contain all of the
information about the Subscription Agreements that is important to Osisko
Shareholders. Osisko Shareholders are encouraged to read the CDP Subscription
Agreement and the Fonds F.T.Q. Subscription Agreement carefully and in their
entirety. 
40 

Osisko has entered into the Subscription Agreements pursuant to
which it will complete the Private Placement. Under the Private Placement, CDP,
an affiliate of the Caisse, and the Fonds F.T.Q. will purchase on a "private
placement" basis, an aggregate of 18,887,363 Osisko Shares at a price of C$14.56
per Osisko Share for gross proceeds to Osisko of C$275 million. The Private
Placement Closing is scheduled to occur concurrently with the Acquisition
Closing. 
The Private Placement and the provisions of the Subscription
Agreements are the result of arm's length negotiations conducted between
representatives of Osisko, CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. The subscription price per
Osisko Share of C$14.56 was established at a premium to the market price (as
such term is defined in the TSX rules) of C$14.29 at the time the Acquisition
Agreement was executed (but represent a discount of 5.25 % after giving effect
to the capital commitment fee of 7%). 
Assuming completion of both the Private Placement and the
Acquisition, the Caisse, together with its affiliates, and the Fonds F.T.Q. will
beneficially own, or exercise control or direction over, directly or indirectly,
an aggregate of 19,014,093 and 8,640,488 Osisko Shares, respectively (which
includes the 4,997,497 and 3,384,264 Osisko Shares which the Caisse and the
Fonds F.T.Q., respectively, currently beneficially own, or exercise control or
direction over, directly or indirectly), representing approximately 12.1% and
5.5%, respectively, of the issued and outstanding Osisko Shares. These figures
include the 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued as partial payment (two percent)
of the seven percent capital commitment fee payable to CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q.

Representations and Warranties 
The Subscription Agreements contain customary representations
and warranties of each of Osisko, CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q., as applicable,
relating to, among other things, organization, corporate and governmental
authorizations and the absence of any contravention or conflict with
organizational documents or applicable law. 
Covenants 
The Subscription Agreements contain customary covenants of each
of Osisko, CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. with respect to applicable securities laws
and corporate law, as applicable. 
Upon the Private Placement Closing, each of CDP and the Fonds
F.T.Q. will receive a non-refundable capital commitment fee equal to 7% of the
aggregate purchase price for the Osisko Shares for which each of them has
subscribed (collectively, the "Capital Commitments"). The Capital
Commitments are payable by the issuance of an aggregate of 385,457 Osisko Shares
and a cash payment of C$13.75 million. 
Lock-Up 
The Osisko Shares issued pursuant to the Private Placement will
be subject to a statutory hold period. See "Securities Law Matters". In
addition, CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. have each agreed not to: (i) sell, offer,
contract or grant any option or right to sell or otherwise dispose of any of the
Locked-Up Shares held by them (other than to a wholly-owned affiliate); (ii)
enter into any swap agreement or any other agreement to transfer the economic
consequence of ownership of the Locked-Up Shares (other than with a wholly-owned
affiliate); (iii) publicly announce an intention to do any of the foregoing; or
(iv) act jointly or in concert with any third party doing any of the foregoing
for the duration of the Lock-Up Period, unless otherwise approved by Osisko.

Private Placement Closing 
Completion of the Private Placement is subject to a number of
conditions, including the concurrent issuance of the Osisko Shares to be issued
as partial payment for the Acquisition, the receipt of approval from Osisko
Shareholders for the issuance of the Osisko Shares to be issued pursuant to the
Private Placement, and the delivery of certain customary legal opinions. 
41 

Listing 
The TSX has conditionally approved, and it is expected that the
NYSE will approve, the listing of the Private Placement Shares. Listing of such
securities is subject to Osisko fulfilling all of the listing requirements
respectively of the TSX and NYSE, including obtaining the requisite approval of
the Share Issuance Resolution by the Disinterested Osisko Shareholders. 
Investor Rights Agreement 
Pursuant to the CDP Subscription Agreement, CDP and Osisko
shall enter into, concurrently with the Private Placement Closing, the Investor
Rights Agreement. The Investor Rights Agreement will govern the rights and
obligations of CDP and Osisko in connection with the Caisse's status as an
Osisko Shareholder. 
Board of Directors 
Pursuant to the Investor Rights Agreement, CDP will be granted
representation by one nominee on the Board, so long as the Caisse together with
its affiliates owns more than 10% of the outstanding Osisko Shares. 
Pre-Emptive Rights 
CDP will also be granted pre-emptive rights to participate in
future offerings of Osisko, whether by way of public offerings or private
placements of Osisko Shares or any other equity securities or securities
convertible or exchangeable into Osisko Shares or any other equity securities,
up to the aggregate pro rata ownership interest of the Caisse together with its
affiliates, to enable the Caisse and its affiliates to maintain their equity
position in Osisko (the "Pre-Emptive Rights"). The Pre-Emptive Rights
will remain in effect so long as the Caisse together with its affiliates owns
more than 10% of the outstanding Osisko Shares. The Pre-Emptive Rights are also
subject to certain restrictions including in the case of acquisitions,
arrangements and mergers. 
SECURITIES LAW MATTERS 
The following is a brief summary of the Canadian and U.S.
securities law considerations applying to the transactions contemplated herein
not discussed elsewhere in this Circular. 
Canadian Securities Laws 
Listing and Resale of Shares

Osisko has applied to the TSX to list the 50,179,414 Osisko
Shares to be issued in connection with the Acquisition (30,906,594 Osisko Shares
as the Share Consideration) and the Private Placement (19,272,820 Osisko Shares
as the Private Placement Shares, including 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued on
account of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares). The TSX has
conditionally approved the listing of the Osisko Shares to be issued in
connection with the Acquisition and the Private Placement. Listing is subject to
Osisko fulfilling all of the listing requirements of the TSX, including
obtaining the requisite approval of the Share Issuance Resolution by the
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders. 
The issuance of the Osisko Shares pursuant to the Acquisition
and the Private Placement will constitute distributions of securities that are
exempt from the prospectus requirements of applicable Canadian Securities Laws.

Under Canadian Securities Laws, Osisko Shares issued pursuant
to the Acquisition and the Private Placement may be resold in each province and
territory of Canada, provided: (i) that Osisko is a reporting issuer in a
jurisdiction of Canada for the four months immediately preceding the trade; (ii)
at least four months have elapsed since the distribution date; (iii) the
appropriate restrictive legend was applied to the certificate representing the
Osisko Shares or the purchaser received written notice containing the legend
restriction notification set out in section 2.5(2)(3) or (3.1) of NI 45-102;
(iv) the trade is not a "control distribution" as defined in NI 45-102; (v) no
unusual effort is made to prepare the market or create a demand for those
securities; (vi) no extraordinary commission or consideration is paid in respect of that trade; and (vii) if
the selling security holder is an "insider" or "officer" of Osisko (as such
terms are defined by applicable Canadian Securities Laws), the insider or
officer has no reasonable grounds to believe that Osisko is in default of
applicable Canadian Securities Laws. 
42 

In addition to the foregoing, the Osisko Shares to be issued to
 the Designated Orion Shareholders, CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. are subject to a
 contractual hold period and, in the case of the Osisko Shares to be issued to
 the Designated Orion Shareholders, a broad distribution requirement, in certain
 circumstances. See "The Shareholder Participation Agreement – Restriction on
 Resale of Share Consideration" and "The Subscription Agreements –
Lock-Up". 
U.S. Securities Laws 
The issuance of Osisko Shares pursuant to the Acquisition and
the Private Placement will be made pursuant to applicable exemptions from the
registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act. 
RISK FACTORS 
The following risk factors, which relate to the Acquisition,
the Acquired Assets and the Resulting Company, should be considered by
Disinterested Osisko Shareholders in evaluating whether to approve the Share
Issuance Resolution. These risk factors should be considered in conjunction with
the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this
Circular, including the risks described in Schedule "C" – "Information
Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017", Schedule "D" –
"Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017" and
Schedule "E" – "Information Concerning the Resulting Company as of June 28,
2017" in this Circular, and those risks set forth in Osisko's filings with
the Securities Authorities, which are available under Osisko's issuer profiles
on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. 
Risks Relating to the Acquisition 
There can be no certainty that all conditions precedent
to the Acquisition will be satisfied or waived. Failure to complete the
Acquisition could negatively impact the market price of the Osisko Shares.

The Acquisition is subject to certain conditions that may be
outside the control of the Parties, including, without limitation, the approval
of the Share Issuance Resolution. There can be no certainty, nor can either
Party provide any assurance, that these conditions will be satisfied or waived,
or, if satisfied or waived, when they will be satisfied or waived. If the
Acquisition is not completed, the market price of Osisko Shares may decline. If
the Acquisition is not completed and the Board decides to seek another merger or
business combination, there can be no assurance that Osisko will be able to
undertake a business combination on equivalent or more attractive terms than
those under the Acquisition Agreement. 
The Acquisition Agreement may be terminated by Osisko or
the Orion Parties in certain circumstances. 
Each of Osisko and the Orion Parties has the right to terminate
the Acquisition Agreement and not complete the Acquisition in certain
circumstances. Accordingly, there is no certainty, nor can either party provide
any assurance, that the Acquisition Agreement will not be terminated by either
Osisko or the Orion Parties, as the case may be, before the completion of the
Acquisition. See "The Acquisition Agreement — Termination". 
In addition, completion of the Acquisition is subject to a
number of conditions precedent, certain of which are outside the control of the
Orion Parties and/or Osisko. There is no certainty, nor can either party provide
any assurance, that these conditions will be satisfied or waived. 
43 

There can be no assurance that the TSX and NYSE will
accept for listing the Osisko Shares to be issued to the Designated Orion
Shareholders as the Share Consideration or to CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. under the
Private Placement. 
Completion of the Acquisition is subject to the acceptance for
listing by the TSX and NYSE of the Osisko Shares to be issued to the Designated
Orion Shareholders as the Share Consideration and to CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q.
under the Private Placement. In addition, Osisko is relying on the Private
Placement to fund a portion of the Cash Consideration payable to the Orion
Parties. There can be no assurance that the Share Issuance Resolution will be
approved, or that Osisko will be able to satisfy the requirements of the TSX and
NYSE with respect to the listing of the Osisko Shares comprising the Share
Consideration and Private Placement Shares. A condition of the Acquisition
Closing is the receipt of conditional listing approval of the Osisko Shares to
be issued as the Share Consideration, subject to official notice of issuance. If
such conditional listing approval of the TSX or NYSE is not obtained, then there
can be no guarantee of the successful completion of the Acquisition and Private
Placement. 
Disputes may arise over the existence, validity,
enforceability and geographic extent of royalty, stream and offtake interests.

Royalty, stream and offtake interests are subject to title and
other defects and contest by operators of mining projects and holders of mining
rights, and these risks may be difficult to identify. While Osisko and the Orion
Parties seek to confirm the existence, validity, enforceability and geographic
extent of the royalty, stream and offtake interests they hold, there can be no
assurance that disputes over these and other matters will not arise, including
with respect to the Acquisition. 
Osisko will incur significant costs. 
Certain costs related to the Acquisition, such as legal,
accounting and certain financial advisor fees, must be paid by Osisko even if
the Acquisition is not completed. Osisko and the Orion Parties are each liable
for their own costs incurred in connection with the Acquisition. 
Risks Related to the Resulting Company

Osisko has relied on information made available by the
Orion Parties. 
The Orion Parties are not publicly-listed entities. As a
result, all historical information relating to the Acquired Assets presented in
this Circular has been provided in exclusive reliance on the information made
available by the Orion Parties and their representatives to Osisko. Although
Osisko has no reason to doubt the accuracy or completeness of the information
provided by the Orion Parties, any inaccuracy or omission in such information
contained in this Circular could result in unanticipated liabilities or
expenses, increase the cost of integrating the Resulting Company or adversely
affect the operational plans of the Resulting Company and its result of
operations and financial condition. 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial
statements of Osisko are presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be
an indication of Osisko's financial condition or results of operations following
the Acquisition. 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial
statements contained in this Circular are presented for illustrative purposes
only as of their respective dates and may not be an indication of the financial
condition or results of operations of Osisko following the Acquisition for
several reasons. For example, the unaudited pro forma condensed
consolidated financial statements have been derived from the respective
historical financial statements of Osisko and the Orion Parties, and certain
adjustments and assumptions made as of the dates indicated therein have been
made to give effect to the Acquisition and the other respective relevant
transactions. The information upon which these adjustments and assumptions have
been made is preliminary, and these kinds of adjustments and assumptions are
difficult to make with complete accuracy. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking Information". 
44 

There are risks related to the integration of the
existing businesses of Osisko and the Acquired Assets. 
The ability to realize the benefits of the Acquisition
including, among other things, those set forth in this Circular under the
heading "The Acquisition – Reasons for the Recommendation of the Board",
will depend in part on successfully consolidating functions and integrating the
Acquired Assets in a timely and efficient manner. This integration will require
the dedication of substantial management effort, time and resources which may
divert management's focus and resources from other strategic opportunities of
the Resulting Company following completion of the Acquisition, and from
operational matters during this process. 
Osisko may be unable to successfully integrate the
businesses of Osisko and the Acquired Assets and realize the anticipated
benefits of the Acquisition. 
Osisko is proposing to complete the Acquisition to create a
growth-oriented, world class gold-focused royalty and streaming company with
five cornerstone assets, four of which are Canadian. See "The Acquisition –
Reasons for the Recommendation of the Board". Achieving the benefits of the
Acquisition depends in part on the ability of the Resulting Company to
effectively capitalize on its scale, to realize the anticipated capital,
operating and financial synergies, to profitably sequence the growth prospects
of its asset base and to maximize the potential of its improved growth
opportunities and capital funding opportunities as a result of combining the
businesses and operations of Osisko and the Acquired Assets. A variety of
factors, including those risk factors set forth in this Circular and in the
documents incorporated by reference herein, may adversely affect the ability of
the Resulting Company to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition.

The mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates on the
properties on which the Resulting Company will hold royalty interests may not be
realizable. 
The figures provided in connection with mineral reserves and
mineral resources in respect of the properties in which Osisko and the Orion
Parties hold interests (including royalty/stream/offtake interests) are
estimates, and have not been verified to be accurate, and no assurance can be
given that full recovery of the anticipated tonnages and grades, and production
estimates will be achieved or that any indicated level of recovery will be
realized by the owners and operators of the properties in respect of which
Osisko or the Orion Parties hold interests. 
The Resulting Company will face competition for mineral
interest acquisitions and the mining industry is competitive in all stages.

Many companies are engaged in the search for and the
acquisition of mineral interests, and there is a limited supply of desirable
mineral interests. The mineral exploration business is competitive in all
phases. Many companies are engaged in the acquisition of mining interests
(including, for greater certainty, the Designated Orion Shareholders, CDP, the
Caisse and the Fonds F.T.Q. who are not prohibited from engaging in other
business activities that may compete with those of Osisko) and other large,
established companies with substantial financial resources, operational
capabilities and long earnings records. The Resulting Company may be at a
competitive disadvantage in acquiring interests in these natural resource
properties, whether by way of royalty, stream or other form of investment, as
many competitors have greater financial resources and technical staff. There can
be no assurance that the Resulting Company will be able to compete successfully
against other companies in acquiring royalty interests and other investments in
mineral properties. In addition, the Resulting Company may be unable to acquire
such interest at acceptable valuations and on terms it considers to be
acceptable. The Resulting Company's inability to acquire additional royalty and
stream interests and other investments in mineral properties may result in a
material and adverse effect on the Resulting Company's profitability, results of
operation and financial condition.
In addition, there is no assurance that a ready market will
exist for the sale of commercial quantities of ore. Factors beyond the control
of the Resulting Company may affect the marketability of any substances
discovered. These factors include market fluctuations, the proximity and
capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment, government
regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land
tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental
protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted,
but the combination of these factors may result in the Resulting Company
receiving reduced royalty payments or not receiving any future royalty payments.

45 

Current global financial conditions continue to be
challenging. 
Global financial conditions have been characterized by ongoing
volatility. Global financial conditions could suddenly and rapidly destabilize
in response to future events, as government authorities may have limited
resources to respond to future crises. Global capital markets have continued to
display increased volatility in response to global events. Future crises may be
precipitated by any number of causes, including natural disasters, geopolitical
instability, changes to energy prices or sovereign defaults. Any sudden or rapid
destabilization of global economic conditions could negatively impact the
ability of the operators of the properties in which the Resulting Company holds
interests to obtain equity or debt financing or make other suitable arrangements
to finance their projects. Additionally, the Resulting Company may be subject to
counterparty risk and liquidity risk. The Resulting Company will be exposed to
various counterparty risks including, but not limited to (i) through financial
institutions that hold the Resulting Company's cash, (ii) through companies that
have payables to the Resulting Company, (iii) through the Resulting Company's
insurance providers, and (iv) through the Resulting Company's lenders. The
Resulting Company may also be exposed to liquidity risks in instances where cash
positions are unable to be maintained or appropriate financing is unavailable.
These factors may impact the ability of the Resulting Company to obtain loans or
other credit facilities or obtain equity financing in the future or to obtain
them on terms favourable to the Resulting Company. If increased levels of
volatility continue or in the event of a rapid destabilization of global
economic conditions, the Resulting Company's operations could be adversely
impacted. 
Following completion of the Acquisition, the Designated
Orion Shareholders will have the ability to significantly influence certain
corporate actions of the Resulting Company. 
Immediately following the completion of the Acquisition, the
Designated Orion Shareholders are expected to own approximately 19.7% of the
Osisko Shares on an undiluted basis, based on the number of outstanding Osisko
Shares as of the date of this Circular. This level of ownership of Osisko Shares
will put the Designated Orion Shareholders in a position, subject to the
Shareholder Participation Agreement and the Voting Agreement, to exercise
significant influence over all matters requiring Osisko Shareholder approval,
including the election of directors, determination of significant corporate
actions, amendments to Osisko's articles of incorporation and the approval of
any business combinations, mergers or takeover attempts, in a manner that could
conflict with the interests of other Osisko Shareholders. In addition to having
significant influence over all matters requiring Osisko Shareholder approval,
subject to the Shareholder Participation Agreement and the Voting Agreement, the
Designated Orion Shareholders may have investment objectives which are different
than existing Osisko Shareholders. 
The issuance of a significant number of Osisko Shares
could adversely affect the market price of Osisko Shares. 
If the Acquisition is completed, a significant number of
additional Osisko Shares (being 50,179,414 Osisko Shares, representing
approximately 47.0% of the number of Osisko Shares issued and outstanding prior
to the Acquisition and Private Placement) will be issued and may become
available for trading in the public market, subject to certain statutory and
contractual hold periods. See "Securities Law Matters – Canadian Securities
Laws – Listing and Resale of Shares", "The Subscription Agreements –
Lock-Up", and "The Shareholder Participation Agreement". The increase
in the number of Osisko Shares may lead to sales of such shares or the
perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the
market for, and the market price of, Osisko Shares. 
Changes in tax legislation or accounting rules could
affect the profitability of the Resulting Company. 
Changes to, or differing interpretation of, taxation laws or
regulations in any of Canada, the United States, or any of the countries in
which the Resulting Company's assets or relevant contracting parties are located
could result in some or all of the Resulting Company's profits being subject to
additional taxation. No assurance can be given that new taxation rules or
accounting policies will not be enacted or that existing rules will not be
applied in a manner which could result in the Resulting Company's profits being
subject to additional taxation or which could otherwise have a material adverse
effect on the Resulting Company's profitability, results of operations,
financial condition and the trading price of the Resulting Company securities.
In addition, the introduction of new tax rules or accounting policies, or
changes to, or differing interpretations of, or application of, existing tax
rules or accounting policies could make royalties, streams or other investments
by the Resulting Company less attractive to counterparties. Such changes could
adversely affect the Resulting Company's ability to acquire new assets or make
future investments. 
46 

Risk Factors Related to the Operations of
Osisko 
Whether or not the Acquisition is completed, Osisko will
continue to face many of the risks that it currently faces with respect to its
business and affairs. Certain of these risk factors have been disclosed in the
management's discussion and analysis of financial results of Osisko for the
three months ended March 31, 2017, which is incorporated by reference into this
Circular and has been filed under Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at
www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. Upon request, an Osisko
Shareholder will be provided with a copy of this document free of charge. 
Risk Factors Related to the Acquired Assets

Changes in the market price of the commodities that
underlie the royalty, stream and offtake interests will affect the profitability
of the Acquired Assets and the revenue generated therefrom. 
The revenue from the Acquired Assets will be significantly
affected by changes in the market price of the commodities underlying the
royalties, streams, and offtake agreements. Commodity prices, including those to
which the Acquired Assets are exposed, fluctuate on a daily basis and are
affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Resulting Company,
including levels of supply and demand, industrial development levels, inflation
and the level of interest rates, the strength of the U.S. dollar and
geopolitical events. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by
changes in international investment patterns, monetary systems and political
developments. 
All commodities, by their nature, are subject to wide price
fluctuations and future material price declines will result in a decrease in
revenue or, in the case of severe declines that cause a suspension or
termination of production by relevant operators, a complete cessation of revenue
from royalties, streams or offtake interests applicable to one or more relevant
commodities. Moreover, the broader commodity market tends to be cyclical, and a
general downturn in overall commodity prices could result in a significant
decrease in overall revenue. Any such price decline may result in a material
adverse effect on the profitability, results of operations and financial
condition of the Acquired Assets. 
The underlying properties and assets in respect of which
the Resulting Company holds interests are generally owned and operated by third
parties, and the Resulting Company will have limited or no decision making power
as to how these properties are operated, and the operators' failure to perform
could affect the revenues generated from the Acquired Assets. 
The Orion Parties are not directly involved in the operation of
mines. The revenue derived from the Acquired Assets is based on production by
third party property owners and operators. The owners and operators generally
will have the power to determine the manner in which the properties are
exploited, including decisions to expand, continue or reduce, suspend or
discontinue production from a property, decisions about the marketing of
products extracted from the property and decisions to advance exploration
efforts and conduct development of non-producing properties. The interests of
third party owners and operators and those of the Resulting Company on the
relevant properties may not always be aligned. As an example, it will usually be
in the interest of the Resulting Company to advance development and production
on properties as rapidly as possible in order to maximize near-term cash flow,
while third party owners and operators may take a more cautious approach to
development as they are at risk on the cost of development and operations.
Likewise, it may be in the interest of property owners to invest in the
development of and emphasize production from projects or areas of a project that
are not subject to streaming, royalty or offtake obligations. The inability of
the Resulting Company to control the operations for the properties to which the
Acquired Assets relate may result in a material and adverse effect on the
profitability, results of operations and financial condition of the Acquired
Assets. In addition, the owners or operators may take action contrary to the
policies or objectives of the Resulting Company; be unable or unwilling to
fulfill their obligations under their agreements relating to the Acquired
Assets; have difficulty obtaining or be unable to obtain the financing necessary
to move projects forward; or experience financial, operational or other
difficulties, including insolvency, which could limit the owner or operator's
ability to perform its obligations under arrangements relating to the Acquired
Assets. 
The Resulting Company may not be entitled to any material
compensation if any of the properties to which the Acquired Assets relate shut
down or discontinue operations on a temporary or permanent basis. At any time,
any of the operators of the properties to which the Acquired Assets
relate, or their successors, may decide to suspend or discontinue operations.
47 

The owners or operators of the projects to which the Acquired
 Assets relate may from time to time announce transactions, including the sale or
 transfer of the projects or of the operator itself, over which the Resulting
 Company will have little or no control. If such transactions are completed it
 may result in a new operator controlling the project, who may or may not operate
 the project in a similar manner to the current operator which may positively or
 negatively impact the Acquired Assets. If any such transaction is announced,
 there is no certainty that such transaction will be completed, or completed as
 announced, and any consequences of such non-completion on the Acquired Assets
may be difficult or impossible to predict. 
The Resulting Company will have limited access to data
and disclosure regarding the operation of properties, which will affect the
ability to assess the performance of the Acquired Assets. 
As a royalty/stream/offtake holder, the Resulting Company will
have limited access to data on the underlying operations or to the underlying
properties themselves. This could affect its ability to assess the performance
of the royalty/stream/offtake agreements comprising the Acquired Assets. This
could result in deviations in cash flow from that which is anticipated based on
the stage of development of the properties comprising the Acquired Assets. In
addition, some royalties/streams/offtakes may be subject to confidentiality
arrangements which govern the disclosure of information with regard to such
royalties/streams/offtakes. The limited access to data and disclosure regarding
the operations of the properties to which the Acquired Assets relate may
restrict the ability of the Resulting Company to enhance the performance of the
Acquired Assets, which may result in a material and adverse effect on the
profitability, results of operations and financial condition of the Resulting
Company. 
The Resulting Company will depend on operators for the
calculation of royalty/stream/offtake amounts. 
The amounts deliverable under the royalties/streams/offtake
agreements comprising the Acquired Assets are calculated by the operators of the
underlying properties based on reported production. Each operator's calculation
of royalty/stream/offtake amounts is subject to and dependent upon the adequacy
and accuracy of its production and accounting functions, and errors may occur
from time to time in the calculations made by an operator. Certain
royalty/stream/offtake agreements require the operators to provide production
and operating information, which may, depending on the completeness and accuracy
of such information, enable the Resulting Company to detect any errors in the
calculation of royalty/stream/offtake amounts relating to the Acquired Assets.
The Resulting Company does not, however, have the contractual right to receive
production information for all of its royalty/stream/offtake interests. As a
result, the Resulting Company's ability to detect errors in
royalty/stream/offtake amounts may be limited. Some of the
royalty/stream/offtake agreements comprising the Acquired Assets provide the
right to audit the operational calculations and production data for the
associated royalty/stream/offtake amounts; however, such audits may not occur
until many months following recognition of the royalty/stream/offtake revenue,
and may require the Resulting Company to adjust revenue in later periods. 
The Resulting Company is dependent on the payment or
delivery of royalty/stream/offtake amounts by the owners and operators of the
relevant properties, and any delay in or failure of such royalty/stream/offtake
payments or deliveries will affect the revenues generated by the Acquired
Assets. 
The revenue derived from the Acquired Assets is dependent to a
large extent upon the financial viability and operational effectiveness of
owners and operators of the relevant royalty/stream/offtake properties. Payments
from production generally flow through the operator and there is a risk of delay
and additional expense in receiving such revenues. Payments may be delayed by
restrictions imposed by lenders, delays in the sale or delivery of products, the
ability or willingness of smelters and refiners to process mine products,
accidents, recovery by the operators of expenses incurred in the operation of
the royalty/stream/offtake properties, the establishment by the operators of
reserves for such expenses or the insolvency of the operator. The Resulting
Company's right to amounts under the royalties/streams/offtakes must, in most
cases, be enforced by contract without the protection of the ability to
liquidate a property. This inhibits the Resulting Company's ability to collect
royalty/stream/offtake amounts upon a default. Additionally, some agreements may
provide limited recourse in particular circumstances which may further inhibit
the Resulting Company's ability to recover or obtain equitable relief in the
event of a default under such agreements. In the event of a bankruptcy of an
operator or owner, it is possible that an operator may claim that the Resulting Company should be treated as an unsecured creditor
and, therefore, have a limited prospect for full recovery of revenue and a
possibility that a creditor or the operator may claim that the royalty, stream
or offtake agreement should be terminated in the insolvency proceeding. Failure
to receive payments from the owners and operators of the relevant properties or
termination of the rights of the Resulting Company may result in a material and
adverse effect on the profitability, results of operations and financial
condition of the Acquired Assets. 
48 

Certain royalty/stream/offtake rights are subject to
 rights in favour of others or third parties that could adversely affect the
revenues generated from the Acquired Assets. 
Some royalty/stream/offtake rights are subject to: (i) buy-down
right provisions pursuant to which an operator may buy-back all or a portion of
the royalty/stream/offtake; (ii) pre-emptive rights pursuant to which parties to
the royalty/stream/offtake agreements have a right of first refusal or first
offer with respect to a proposed sale or assignment of the
royalty/stream/offtake; (iii) claw back rights pursuant to which the seller of a
royalty/stream/offtake has the right to re-acquire the royalty/stream/offtake;
or (iv) caps on the total commodity available under a stream or offtake. If
holders of such rights were to exercise these rights, certain
royalty/stream/offtake interests would no longer be held by the Resulting
Company. 
Royalty/stream/offtake rights may not be honoured by
operators of a project. 
Royalty/stream/offtake interests in natural resource properties
are largely contractual in nature. Parties to contracts do not always honour
contractual terms, and contracts themselves may be subject to interpretation or
technical defects. To the extent grantors of royalty/stream/offtake interests do
not abide by their contractual obligations, the Resulting Company would be
forced to take legal action to enforce its contractual rights. Such litigation
may be time consuming and costly and there is no guarantee of success. Any
pending proceedings or actions or any decisions determined adversely to the
Resulting Company may have a material and adverse effect on the profitability,
results of operations, and financial condition of the Resulting Company. 
There may be unknown defects in the assets comprising the
Acquired Assets. 
A defect in a royalty, stream, offtake or equity interest
and/or the underlying contract may arise to defeat or impair the claim of the
Resulting Company to such royalty, stream, offtake or equity interest. Unknown
defects in the assets comprising the Acquired Assets may result in a material
and adverse effect on the profitability, results of operations, and financial
condition of the Resulting Company.
The revenue from and value of the Acquired Assets is
subject to variations in foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect the
revenue generated by or value of the Acquired Assets. 
The royalty/stream/offtake interests comprising the Acquired
Assets are subject to foreign currency fluctuations and inflationary pressures,
which may have a material and adverse effect on the profitability, results of
operations and financial condition of the Acquired Assets. 
Potential litigation affecting the properties to which
the Acquired Assets relate could have an adverse effect on the Acquired
Assets. 
Potential litigation may arise on a property to which the
Resulting Company has a royalty/stream/offtake interest (for example, litigation
between joint venture partners or between operators and original property owners
or neighbouring property owners). As a royalty/stream/offtake holder, the
Resulting Company will not generally have any influence on the litigation and
will not generally have access to data. Any such litigation that results in the
cessation or reduction of production from a property (whether temporary or
permanent) could have a material and adverse effect on the profitability,
results of operations, and financial condition of the Acquired Assets. 
49 

The exploration and development of mining and resource
properties is inherently dangerous and subject to risks, which could adversely
impact the Acquired Assets. 
Companies engaged in mining activities are subject to all of
the hazards and risks inherent in exploring for and developing natural resource
projects. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,
environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labour disputes, increases in the
cost of labour, social unrest, changes in the regulatory environment, permitting
and title risks, impact of non-compliance with laws and regulations,
encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations or other geological or
grade problems, unanticipated metallurgical characteristics or less than
expected mineral recovery, encountering unanticipated ground or water
conditions, cave-ins, pit wall failures, flooding, rock bursts, periodic
interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions, earthquakes,
seismic activity, other natural disasters or unfavourable operating conditions
and losses. Should any of these risks or hazards affect a company's exploration
or development activities, it may (i) cause the cost of development or
production to increase to a point where it would no longer be economic to
produce the metal from the company's resources or expected reserves; (ii) result
in a write down or write-off of the carrying value of one or more projects;
(iii) cause delays or stoppage of mining or processing; (iv) result in the
destruction of properties, processing facilities or third party facilities
necessary to the company's operations; (v) cause personal injury or death and
related legal liability; or (vi) result in the loss of insurance coverage. The
occurrence of any of above mentioned risks or hazards could result in an
interruption or suspension of operation of the properties to which the Acquired
Assets relate, and have a material and adverse effect on the profitability,
results of operations, and financial condition of the Acquired Assets. 
Title defects in a mining property may adversely affect
the Acquired Assets. 
A defect in the chain of title to any of the properties
underlying the royalty, stream or offtake interests comprising the Acquired
Assets or necessary for the development or operation of a particular project to
which a royalty, stream or offtake interest relates may arise to defeat or
impair the claim of the operator to a property. In addition, claims by third
parties or aboriginal groups in Canada and elsewhere may impact the operator's
ability to conduct activities on a property to the detriment of the Acquired
Assets. Furthermore, even in jurisdictions where there is a right to record or
register royalties, streams or other interests in land registries or mining
recorders offices, such registrations may not necessarily provide any protection
against such claims. As a result, such title defects and claims on properties to
which the Acquired Assets relate may have a material and adverse effect on the
profitability, results of operations, and financial condition of the Acquired
Assets. 
Bankruptcy or insolvency of a property owner may
adversely affect the Acquired Assets. 
Most royalties, streams or offtake interests are contractual,
rather than an interest in land, with the risk that an assignment or bankruptcy
or insolvency proceedings by an owner of an underlying property to which the
Acquired Assets relate will result in the loss of any effective royalty, stream
or offtake interest in that particular property. 
The mining operations to which the Acquired Assets relate
are subject to laws and regulations and require various permits and licenses in
order to conduct current and future operations. A failure to comply with such
laws and regulations, or a failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits and
licenses could result in the interruption or closure of operations on the
properties. 
Exploration, development and operation of mining properties is
subject to laws and regulations governing environmental matters, mine
development, project development, mineral production, permitting and maintenance
of title, health and worker safety, employment standards, exports, labour
standards, reclamation obligations, heritage and historic matters and other
matters. In addition, the owners and operators of the properties in which the
Resulting Company holds a royalty, stream or other interest require licenses and
permits from various governmental authorities in order to conduct their
operations. Failure by such owners and operators to comply with applicable laws,
or to obtain or maintain necessary permits and licenses could result in the
interruption or closure of operations on the properties, which could have a
material adverse impact on the revenue the Resulting Company derives from the
related royalty/stream/offtake interests. Furthermore, such laws and regulations
and permits and licenses may be subject to changes, which cannot be predicted.
There can be no guarantee that the owners or operators of the properties to
which the Acquired Assets relate will be able to comply with all applicable laws
and regulations or obtain or maintain all necessary licenses and permits in good
standing that may be required to explore, develop and operate the properties, commence construction or operation of
mining facilities, or maintain operations that economically justify the cost.
Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, permits and
licenses, or to maintain permits and licenses in good standing, even if
inadvertent, could result in interruption or closure of exploration, development
or mining operations or fines, penalties or other liabilities accruing to the
owner or operator of the project. Any such occurrence could substantially
decrease production or cause the termination of operations on the property and
have a material and adverse effect on the profitability, results of operations,
and financial condition of the Acquired Assets. 
50 

The Acquired Assets are exposed to risks related to the
 permitting, construction, development and/or expansion in relation of the
projects and properties to which they relate. 
Many of the projects or properties to which the Acquired Assets
relate are in the permitting, construction, development and/or expansion stage
and such projects are subject to numerous risks, including, but not limited to
delays in obtaining equipment, materials and services essential to the
construction and development of such projects in a timely manner, delays or
inability to obtain required permits, changes in environmental or other
regulations, currency exchange rates, labour shortages, cost escalations and
fluctuations in metal prices. There can be no assurance that the owners or
operators of such projects will have the financial, technical and operational
resources to complete permitting, construction, development and/or expansion of
such projects in accordance with current expectations or at all. 
Risks relating to foreign jurisdictions.

Certain of the Acquired Assets relate to properties outside of
the United States and Canada. The ownership, development and operation of these
properties may be subject to additional risks associated with conducting
business in foreign countries, including, depending on the country,
nationalization and expropriation, social unrest, political and economic
instability, lack of infrastructure, less developed legal and regulatory
systems, uncertainties in perfecting mineral titles, crime, violence,
corruption, trade barriers, exchange controls and material changes in taxation.
These risks may, among other things, limit or disrupt the ownership, development
or operation of properties, mines or projects to which the Acquired Assets
relate, restrict the movement of funds, or result in the deprivation of
contractual rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation
without fair compensation. 
Adequate infrastructure may not be available to develop
some of the properties to which the Acquired Assets relate. 
Mining, processing, development and exploration activities
depend, to one degree or another, on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads,
bridges, power sources and water supply are important determinants, which affect
capital and operating costs. Unusual or infrequent weather phenomena, sabotage,
government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such
infrastructure could adversely affect the operations in which the Resulting
Company has a royalty/stream/offtake interest. 
The Acquired Assets are subject to risks related to
social acceptance. 
The Acquired Assets include interests on operations located in
some areas presently or previously inhabited or used by the local population.
Various national and international laws, regulations and policies impose
obligations on government and private parties to acknowledge and respect the
rights of the local population, including general social acceptance and
consultation with indigenous people regarding actions which may affect
indigenous people, including actions to approve or grant mining rights or
permits. The projects or properties to which the Acquired Assets relate are
subject to a risk that one or more groups of the local population may oppose
continued operation, further development, or new development of those projects,
whether through legal or administrative proceedings, protests, roadblocks or
other forms of public expression against the operators' activities. Opposition
by the local population to such activities may delay, disrupt, require
modification of or preclude operation or development of projects or otherwise
adversely impact such projects and the interests of the Resulting Company in
such projects. 
51 

INFORMATION CONCERNING OSISKO 
Information concerning Osisko is set out in Schedule "C" –
"Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017".
INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ACQUIRED ASSETS 
Information concerning the Acquired Assets is set out in
Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28,
2017". 
INFORMATION CONCERNING THE RESULTING COMPANY 
Information concerning the Resulting Company (assuming the
completion of the Acquisition) is set out in Schedule "E" – "Information
Concerning the Resulting Company as of June 28, 2017". 
INTEREST OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS OF OSISKO IN THE
ACQUISITION 
Other than as described in this Circular, Osisko is not aware
of any material interest, direct or indirect, by way of beneficial ownership of
securities or otherwise of any director or executive officer of Osisko or anyone
who has held office as such since the beginning of Osisko's most recently
completed financial year or of any associate or affiliate of the foregoing in
(i) the Acquisition, or (ii) any matter to be acted on at the Meeting. 
INTEREST OF INFORMED PERSONS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS

To the knowledge of Osisko, after reasonable enquiry, no
informed person of Osisko, or any associate or affiliate of any informed person,
or Oskar Lewnowski, a proposed director of the Resulting Company, has or had any
material interest, direct or indirect, in any transaction or any proposed
transaction which has materially affected or would materially affect Osisko
since the commencement of Osisko's most recently completed fiscal year, other
than Oskar Lewnowski who has an interest in the Acquisition. 
MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS 
No management functions of Osisko or any subsidiaries are
performed to any substantial degree by a person other than the directors or
officers of Osisko. 
AUDITORS 
The auditor of Osisko is PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP/s.r.l./s.e.n.c.r.l., a partnership of Chartered Professional Accountants,
1250 René-Lévesque Boulevard West, Suite 2500, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B
4Y1. 
The auditor of Orion Mine Finance Management I Limited, as the
investment manager of Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP and its
co-investment vehicle, and Orion Mine Finance Management I-A Limited, as the
investment manager of Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, is KPMG LLP,
Chartered Professional Accountants, Bay Adelaide Centre, 333 Bay Street, Suite
4600, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 2S5. 
LEGAL MATTERS 
Certain Canadian legal matters in connection with the
Acquisition as they pertain to Osisko will be passed upon by Bennett Jones LLP.
Certain Québec legal matters in connection with the Acquisition as they pertain
to Osisko will be passed upon by Lavery, de Billy, L.L.P. Certain United States
legal matters in connection with the Acquisition as they pertain to Osisko will
be passed upon by Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP.
Certain Canadian legal matters in connection with the Acquisition as they
pertain to Orion will be passed upon by Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP. 
52 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Additional information relating to Osisko is available under
Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. Osisko Shareholders may contact Osisko at 1100, Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 2S2 to request
copies of Osisko's financial statements and management's discussion and
analysis.
Financial information is provided in Osisko's financial
statements and management's discussion and analysis for its most recently
completed financial year, which are available under Osisko's issuer profiles on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov. 
Financial information is provided in the Orion Parties'
financial statements and management's discussion and analysis for its most
recently completed financial year, which is set out in Schedule "F" –
"Financial Statements and Management's Discussion and Analysis of the
Acquired Assets" to this Circular. 
OTHER MATTERS 
Management of Osisko is not aware of any other matter to come
before the Meeting other than as set forth in the Notice of Meeting. If any
other matter properly comes before the Meeting, it is the intention of the
persons named in the enclosed Proxy to vote the shares represented thereby in
accordance with their best judgment on such matter. 
OSISKO BOARD APPROVAL 
The contents and the sending of the Notice of Meeting and this
Circular have been approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES
LTD 
(signed) "Sean Roosen" 
Sean Roosen Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer June 29, 2017 
53 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
In this Circular and the Summary, the following capitalized
words and terms shall have the following meanings:
"2014 Capital Cost Estimate" means the Brucejack
Report's estimate as to the total initial capital cost for the design,
construction, installation, and commissioning of the Brucejack Project, being
US$746.9 million.
"2015 Mineral Resource Estimate" means the updated
mineral resource estimate documented in the technical report entitled "2015
Mineral Resource Update for the Renard Diamond Project, Québec, Canada" with an
effective date of September 24, 2015. 
"2016 Technical Report" means the technical report
entitled "Updated Renard Diamond Project Mine Plan and Mineral Reserve Estimate,
Québec, Canada, NI 43-101 Technical Report" with an effective date of December
31, 2015. 
"2018 Non–Stream Option" means the option of Pretium
Exploration under the Brucejack Stream Agreement to elect to repurchase the
entire 8% stream by paying US$237 million. 
"2018 Stream Option" means the option of Pretium
Exploration under the Brucejack Stream Agreement to reduce the stream to 3% of
Refined Precious Metals by paying US$150 million, in which case the stream
deliveries would commence January 1, 2019. 
"2019 Non–Stream Option" means the option of Pretium
Exploration under the Brucejack Stream Agreement to repurchase the entire 8%
stream by paying US$272 million. 
"2019 Stream Option" the option of Pretium Exploration
under the Brucejack Stream Agreement to reduce the stream to 4% of Refined
Precious Metals by paying US$150 million, in which case the stream deliveries
would commence on January 1, 2020. 
"Acquired Assets" means the Directly Transferred Assets
and the securities of the Holding Entities, comprising a total of 74 royalty,
stream instruments and offtake instruments, to be acquired by Osisko from the
Orion Parties pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Acquired Material Properties" means, collectively, the
Renard Mine, the Brucejack Mine, and the Mantos Blancos Mine. 
"Acquisition" means the purchase and sale of the
Acquired Assets pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Acquisition Agreement" means the Acquisition Agreement
dated June 4, 2017 among Osisko, Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP, Orion
Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC, Orion
Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited and
Lynx Metals, including all schedules attached thereto, and as the same may be
further amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in
accordance with the terms thereof, the text of which may be viewed under
Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. 
"Acquisition Closing" means the closing of the
Acquisition. 
"Acquisition Closing Date" means the date on which
Acquisition Closing occurs. 
"affiliate" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the
Securities Act, unless the context otherwise requires, including where an
agreement is summarized in the Circular and the term "Affiliate" or
"affiliate" is otherwise defined in such agreement. 
"Aggregate Gold Quantity" means 7,067,000 ounces of
refined gold (less the amount delivered by Pretium Exploration including under
the Brucejack Offtake Agreement) times the Designated Metal Percentage. 
54 

"Aggregate Silver Quantity" means the product of
26,297,000 ounces of refined silver (less the amount delivered by Pretium
Exploration under the Brucejack Offtake Agreement) times the Designated Metal
Percentage. 
"Agnico-Yamana Arrangement" has the meaning ascribed to
such term in Schedule "C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28,
2017" to this Circular under the heading "Promoters". 
"AIF" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Schedule
"C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017" to this
Circular under the heading "Documents Incorporated by Reference". 
"Amulsar Cash Deposit" means US$60 million. 
"Amulsar Designated Gold Percentage" means 6.75% of the
number of ounces of refined gold produced from Lydian's gold project located in
Amulsar, Armenia (in an approximate proportion of 4.22% to Orion Co IV and 2.53%
to Resource Capital).
"Amulsar Designated Silver Percentage" means 100% of the
number of ounces of refined silver produced from the Amulsar gold project (in a
proportion of 62.5% to Orion Co IV and 37.5% to Resource Capital). 
"Amulsar Fixed Gold Price" means $400 per ounce of
refined gold. 
"Amulsar Fixed Silver Price" means $4.00 per ounce of
refined silver. 
"Amulsar Purchasers" means Orion Co IV and Resource
Capital. 
"Amulsar Stream Agreement" means the purchase and sale
agreement dated November 30, 2015 between Lydian Armenia, as seller, Lydian, as
guarantor, and the Amulsar Purchasers. 
"Annual Financial Statements" has the meaning ascribed
to such term in Schedule "C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28,
2017" to this Circular under the heading "Documents Incorporated by
Reference". 
"Aquila" means Aquila Resources Inc. 
"ARC" has the meaning ascribed to such term in this
Circular under the heading "The Acquisition – Canadian Competition Act
Approval". 
"associate" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the
Securities Act, unless stated otherwise. 
"Back Forty Cash Deposit" means US$17,226,000.
"Back Forty Designated Silver Percentage" means 75% of
the number of ounces of payable silver in respect of any minerals from the Back
Forty project. 
"Back Forty Fixed Silver Price" means $4.00 per ounce of
refined silver. 
"Back Forty Silver Purchase Price" means the purchase
price for the Back Forty Designated Silver Percentage. 
"Back Forty Stream Agreement" means the silver purchase
and sale agreement between TitheCo, as purchaser, and Aquila, as seller, dated
March 31, 2015, governing the purchase of silver produced at the Back Forty
project. 
"Base Purchase Price" means C$1,125,000,000. 
"BHS" means blasthole shrinkage. 
"Board" means the board of directors of Osisko, as the
same is constituted from time to time. 
55 

"Broadridge" means Broadridge Investor Communications
Corporation in Canada and its counterpart in the United States. 
"Brucejack Mine" or "Brucejack Property" means
the Brucejack gold mine located in Northwestern British Columbia operated by
Pretium Resources. 
"Brucejack Offtake Agreement" means the offtake
agreement dated September 15, 2015 among Pretium Exploration, Pretium Resources,
0890696 B.C. Ltd., Orion Stream II and BTO. 
"Brucejack Report" means the report entitled
"Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on Brucejack Project, Stewart,
BC" with an effective date of June 19, 2014 prepared for Pretium by Tetra Tech
and co-authored by Snowden, AMC Mining Consultants (Canada) Ltd., ERM Rescan,
BGC Engineering Inc., Alpine Solutions Avalanche Services and Valard.

"Brucejack Stream" has the meaning ascribed to such term
in Schedule "E" – "Information Concerning the Resulting Company as of June
28, 2017" to this Circular under the heading "Description of the Business
of the Resulting Company". 
"Brucejack Stream Agreement" means the gold and silver
purchase and sale agreement dated September 15, 2015 among Orion Stream II and
BTO, as purchasers, Pretium Resources and Pretium Exploration, as sellers, Orion
Stream II, as purchaser's agent and Orion Co-Investments II (ED) Limited, as
collateral agent. 
"BTO" means BTO Midas L.P. 
"Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday, a
Sunday or a statutory holiday in Toronto, Ontario or Montréal, Québec. 
"Caisse" means the Caisse de dépôt et placement du
Québec. 
"Canadian Competition Act Approval" means any of: (i)
the Commissioner of Competition (Canada) having issued an ARC pursuant to
section 102 of the Competition Act in respect of the transactions contemplated
by the Acquisition Agreement; (ii) the Commissioner of Competition (Canada)
having waived the obligation to file notifications under Section 114 of the
Competition Act and having issued a No Action Letter; or (iii) the parties
having filed notifications under Section 114 of the Competition Act and the
applicable waiting period under section 123 of the Competition Act having
expired or been terminated and the Commissioner of Competition (Canada) having
issued a No Action Letter. 
"Canadian Environmental Assessment Act" or "CEAA"
means the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act (S.C., c.37). 
"Canadian Malartic Corporation" means Canadian Malartic
Corporation (formerly Osisko Mining Corporation). 
"Canadian Malartic GP" means Canadian Malartic GP, a
general partnership existing under the laws of Ontario. 
"Canadian Malartic Mine" means the properties that are
subject to the Canadian Malartic Royalty. 
"Canadian Malartic Royalty" has the meaning ascribed to
such term in Schedule "E" – "Information Concerning the Resulting Company as
of June 28, 2017" to this Circular under the heading "Description of the
Business of the Resulting Company". 
"Canadian Securities Laws" means applicable Canadian
provincial and territorial securities laws. 
"CAPEX" means capital expenditures. 
56 

"Capital Commitments" has the meaning ascribed to such
term in this Circular under the heading "The Subscription Agreements –
Covenants". 
"Cash Consideration" means the C$675
million in cash payable by Osisko to the Orion Parties in satisfaction of a
portion of the Purchase Price pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement, subject to
adjustment in accordance with the terms of the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Casino NSR Royalty" means a 2.75% net smelter returns
royalty on all ores, doré, concentrates, metals, minerals and mineral
by-products that are produced or extracted from the Casino project. 
"CBCA" means the Canada Business Corporations Act
and the regulations made thereunder. 
"CDP" means CDP Investissements Inc., an affiliate of
the Caisse. 
"CDP Subscription Agreement" means the subscription
agreement between Osisko and CDP dated June 4, 2017. 
"CIBC" means CIBC World Markets Inc. 
"CIM" means Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.

"Circular" means this management information circular
for the Meeting, including all Schedules hereto, and all amendments and
supplements hereto. 
"Closure Plan" means the rehabilitation plan for the
Renard Diamond Mine. 
"cm" means centimetre. 
"Commencement of Commercial Production" means the first
day of the month immediately following the month in which the Renard Project's
processing plant first processes ore at an average rate of 3,550.7 tons per day.

"Commissioner of Competition (Canada)" means the
Commissioner of Competition appointed under subsection 7(1) of the Competition
Act, or his or her designee. 
"Competition Act" means the Competition Act
(Canada) R.S.C. 1985, c. C-34, and the regulations thereunder, all as amended
from time to time. 
"Coulon Exchange Rights" means the exchange rights
granted to holders of the Class "A" shares in the capital of Coulon Mines Inc.
to exchange their Class "A" shares for Osisko Shares pursuant to the plan of
arrangement under Section 192 of the Canada Business Corporations Act
among Osisko, Virginia and 9081798 Canada Inc. effective February 17, 2015. 
"cpht" means carats per hundred tonnes. 
"CRB" means country rock breccia. 
"cts" means carats. 
"Declaration of Partnership" means the Declaration of
Partnership executed by Stornoway in July, 2012, with the communities of
Chibougamau and Chapais in the James Bay Region of Québec. 
"Designated Metal Percentage" means 8%, unless (i)
Pretium Resources exercises the 2018 Stream Option, in which case it will be 3%,
or (ii) Pretium Resources exercises the 2019 Stream Option, in which case it
will be 4%. 
57 

"Designated Orion Shareholders" means one or more
Persons designated by the Orion Parties to receive the Share Consideration, each
of which will enter into the Shareholder Participation Agreement and the Voting
Agreement at the Acquisition Closing. 
"Disinterested Osisko Shareholders" means, in respect of
the Share Issuance Resolution, all Osisko Shareholders other than Interested
Osisko Shareholders. 
"Directly Transferred Assets" means the royalties,
stream instruments and offtake instruments set out in Schedule "A" to the
Acquisition Agreement. 
"DMS" means dense medium separation. 
"documents incorporated by reference" has the meaning
ascribed to such term in Schedule "C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of
June 28, 2017" to this Circular under the heading "Documents Incorporated
by Reference". 
"DSU Plan" means the deferred share unit plan of Osisko
in effect since April 30, 2014.
"EDGAR" means the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis,
and Retrieval system. 
"Éléonore Mine" means the properties that are subject to
the Éléonore Royalty. 
"Éléonore Royalty" has the meaning ascribed to such term
in Schedule "E" – "Information Concerning the Resulting Company as of June
28, 2017" to this Circular under the heading "Description of the Business
of the Resulting Company". 
"Environment Quality Act" or "EQA" means the
Environment Quality Act (RSQ c. Q-2). 
"Explosives Act" means the Explosives Act
(R.S.C., 1985 c. E-17). 
"FCDC" means FCDC Sales and Marketing Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of SDCI. 
"Fonds F.T.Q." means the Fonds de solidarité des
travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.). 
"Fonds F.T.Q. Subscription Agreement" means the
subscription agreement between Osisko and the Fonds F.T.Q. dated June 4,
2017. 
"forward-looking information" has the meaning ascribed
to such term in this Circular under the heading "Cautionary Statement
Regarding Forward-Looking Information". 
"Foxtrot Property" means, collectively, the property
comprised of 650 claims (33,629.95ha) in four blocks (one large contiguous
landholding of 630 claims plus three smaller blocks), the Mine Lease and a
surface lease number 1303 10 000 (199.85 ha).
"Franco-Nevada" means Franco-Nevada Corporation. 
"Fund I" means Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP.

"g" means gram. 
"Ga" means giga annum (billion years). 
"Gold Purchase Price" means the purchase price for the
Amulsar Designated Gold Percentage. 
"Golder" means Golder Associates Ltd. 
58 

"Governmental Authority" means the government of the
United States of America, Canada or any province or territory thereof, or any
other country or sovereign entity, any state, commonwealth, territory, or
possession thereof, and any political subdivision or quasi-governmental
authority of any of the same, including but not limited to courts, tribunals,
arbitrators, departments, commissions, boards, bureaus, agencies, counties,
municipalities, provinces, parishes, and other instrumentalities. 
"Gross Proceeds" means the portion of the actual gross
selling price of the Subject Diamond pursuant to a permitted sale that is
attributable to the Subject Diamonds Interest in such Subject Diamond. 
"Guide 7" means the SEC's Industry Guide 7. 
"ha" means hectare. 
"HK" means hypabyssal kimberlite. 
"Holding Entities" means the entities set out in
Schedule "C" to the Acquisition Agreement, which comprise part of the Acquired
Assets and hold the royalties, stream instruments and offtake instruments set
out in Schedule "C" to the Acquisition Agreement. 
"HPGR" means high-pressure grinding roll. 
"IFRS" means International Financial Reporting Standards
adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board, as updated and amended
from time to time. 
"Interested Osisko Shareholders" means, in respect of
the Share Issuance Resolution, any Osisko Shareholder who was a director or
executive officer of Osisko as of the effective date of the Acquisition
Agreement. 
"Interim Financial Statements" has the meaning ascribed
to such term in Schedule "C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28,
2017" to this Circular under the heading "Documents Incorporated by
Reference". 
"Investor Rights Agreement" means the investor rights
agreement between Osisko and CDP to be dated as of the Private Placement Closing
Date. 
"IRR" means internal rate of return. 
"ISRM" means the International Society for Rock
Mechanics. 
"James Bay Regional Government" means a joint Regional
Government composed of Crees and Jamésiens. 
"JBNQA" means James Bay and Northern Québec Agreement
1975. 
"Judgment" means any judgment, writ, order, injunction,
award, or decree of any court, judge, justice, magistrate or arbitrator,
including any bankruptcy court or judge, and any order of or by any Governmental
Authority. 
"k" means thousand. 
"kg" means kilogram. 
"km" means kilometre. 
"km²" means square kilometre. 
"kV" means kilovolt. 
"l" means litre. 
59 

"L" means Mine level (depth below surface in metres).

"Laws" means all laws, by-laws, rules, regulations,
orders, ordinances, protocols, codes, guidelines, instruments, policies,
notices, directions and Judgments or other requirements of any Governmental
Authority. 
"Legal Requirements" means applicable common law and any
statute, ordinance, code or other law, Regulations, order, requirement, or
procedure enacted, adopted, promulgated, applied, or followed by any
Governmental Authority, including any Judgment. 
"LDR" means large diamond recovery. 
"LHOS" means long hole open stoping. 
"LNG" means liquefied natural gas. 
"Lock-Up Period" has the meaning ascribed to such term
in this Circular under the heading "Summary of Circular – The Subscription
Agreements". 
"Locked-Up Shares" has the meaning ascribed to such term
in this Circular under the heading "Summary of Circular – The Subscription
Agreements". 
"LOM" means life-of-mine. 
"Lydian" means Lydian International Limited.
"Lydian Armenia" means Lydian Armenia CJSC (formerly
Geoteam CJSC).
"Lynx Metals" or "Lynx Metals Limited" means Lynx
Metals Limited. 
"m" means metre. 
"m²" means square metre. 
"m³" means cubic metre. 
"Ma" means mega annum (million years). 
"Management Proxyholder" has the meaning ascribed to
such term in this Circular under the heading "General Proxy Information –
Osisko Shareholders Entitled to Vote". 
"Mantos" means Mantos Copper S.A. 
"Mantos Blancos Mine" means the Mantos Blancos copper
mine located in northern Chile operated by Mantos. 
"Mantos Blancos Stream" has the meaning ascribed to such
term in Schedule "E" – "Information Concerning the Resulting Company as of
June 28, 2017" to this Circular under the heading "Description of the
Business of the Resulting Company". 
"Mantos Silver Purchase Price" means the purchase price
for silver under the Mantos Stream Agreement. 
"Mantos Stream Agreement" means the silver purchase
agreement dated September 11, 2015, as amended, between Mantos, as seller and
TitheCo, as purchaser, governing the purchase of silver produced at the Mantos
Blancos Mine. 
"masl" means meters above sea level. 
60 

"Material Adverse Effect" means an Orion Material
Adverse Effect and/or an Osisko Material Adverse Effect as the context requires.

"Material Properties" means the Renard Diamond Mine, the
Brucejack Gold Mine, and the Mantos Blancos Mine. 
"Maxit Capital" means Maxit Capital LP, the financial
advisor of Osisko. 
"Maxit Fairness Opinion" means the fairness opinion
delivered by Maxit Capital to Osisko and the Board, as set out in Schedule "B" –
"Fairness Opinion of Maxit Capital" to this Circular. 
"MDDELCC" means the Ministère du Développement durable,
de l'Environnement et de la Lutte contre les changements climatiques (Ministry
of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight Against Climate
Change) (formerly the MDDEP). 
"Mecheshoo Agreement" means the impact and benefits
agreement dated March 27, 2012 between SDCI, the Cree Nation of Mistissini, The
Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Regional Authority. 
"Meeting" means the special meeting of the Osisko
Shareholders, including any adjournment or postponement thereof, to be held to
consider the Share Issuance Resolution. 
"MERN" means the Ministère de l'Énergie et des
Ressources naturelles (Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources) (formerly the
MRNF). 
"MIC" means the management information circular of
Osisko dated March 31, 2017, distributed in connection with the annual and
special meeting of Osisko Shareholders held on May 4, 2017. 
"Mine Lease" means the mining lease BM 1021. 
"mm" means millimetre. 
"Mt" means million tonnes (metric tons) 
"MTQ" means the Ministère des Transports du Québec. 
"MW" means megawatts. 
"NCIB Program" has the meaning ascribed to such term in
Schedule "C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017" to
this Circular under the heading "Description of Shares – Redemption and
Repurchases". 
"NG" means natural gas. 
"NI 43-101" means National Instrument 43-101 –
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects or Regulation 43-101
respecting Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects in the Province
of Québec. 
"NI 45-102" means National Instrument 45-102 – Resale
of Securities or Regulation 45-102 respecting Resale of Securities in
the Province of Québec. 
"No Action Letter" means written confirmation from the
Commissioner of Competition (Canada) confirming that he/she/it does not, at that
time, intend to make an application under Section 92 of the Competition Act in
respect of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement. 
"NOBOs" means Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders, who do
not object to their name being made known to the issuer of securities known as
"non-objecting beneficial owners". 
"Non-Registered Osisko Shareholder" means a
non-registered holder of Osisko Shares. 
61 

"Notice of Meeting" means the notice of special meeting
accompanying this Circular. 
"NPV" means net present value. 
"NSR royalty" means net smelter return royalty. 
"NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange.
"OBOs" means Non-Registered Osisko Shareholders, who
object to their name being made known to the issuer of securities known as
"objecting beneficial owners". 
"OP" means open pit. 
"OPEX" means operating expenses. 
"Options" means the outstanding options to purchase
Osisko Shares granted under the stock option plan of Osisko or otherwise issued
by Osisko. 
"Orion Co IV" or "Orion Co IV (SO) Limited" means
Orion Co IV (SO) Limited. 
"Orion Funds" means, together, Orion Mine Finance
(Master) Fund I LP and Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund 1-A LP. 
"Orion Parties" means, collectively, Orion Mine Finance
(Master) Fund I LP, Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion
Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC, Orion Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments
IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited and Lynx Metals. 
"Orion Material Adverse Effect" means any change,
effect, event, state of facts or occurrence that, individually or together with
any other changes, effects, events, states of facts or occurrences, is or would
reasonably be expected to (x) be material and adverse to the Directly
Transferred Assets and the Holding Entities, taken as a whole or (y) materially
impede the completion of the transactions contemplated under the Acquisition
Agreement, other than any change, effect, event, state of facts or occurrence:
(i) affecting the worldwide gold, silver, copper or diamond mining industry in
general; (ii) in or relating to general political, economic or financial or
market conditions generally (including any reduction in market indices); (iii)
in or relating to IFRS or regulatory accounting requirements; (iv) in or
relating to any change in Legal Requirements or any interpretation, application
or non-application thereof by any Governmental Authority; or (v) resulting from
changes in the price of gold, silver, copper or diamonds; provided, however,
that such change, effect, event, state of facts or occurrence referred to in
clauses (i) to (v) above does not have a disproportionate effect on the
counterparties under the royalties, stream instruments or offtake instruments
comprising the Acquired Assets, taken as a whole, compared to other companies of
similar size operating in the mining industry. 
"Orion Stream I" or "Orion Co-Investments I (Stream)
LLC" means Orion Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC. 
"Orion Stream II" or "Orion Co-Investments II
(Stream) Limited" means Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited. 
"Osisko" means Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd, a company
existing under the QBCA, and all successors thereto. 
"Osisko Material Adverse Effect" means any change,
effect, event, state of facts or occurrence that, individually or together with
any other changes, effects, events, states of facts or occurrences, is or would
reasonably be expected to (x) be material and adverse to the business,
operations, results of operations, assets, properties, capitalization, financial
condition or liabilities (contingent or otherwise) of Osisko or its
subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (y) materially impede the completion of the
transactions contemplated under the Acquisition Agreement, other than any
change, effect, event, state of facts or occurrence: (i) affecting the worldwide
gold mining industry in general; (ii) in or relating to general political,
economic, financial or capital market conditions generally (including any
reduction in market indices); (iii) in or relating to, IFRS or regulatory
accounting requirements; (iv) in or relating to any change in Legal Requirements
or any interpretation, application or non-application thereof by any
Governmental Authority; (v) relating to a change in the market trading price of
shares of Osisko arising from the announcement of the execution of the
Acquisition Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or, subject to the
proviso in the last clause of this definition, any change event or occurrence
excluded from this definition under clauses (i) to (iv) and (vi); or (vi)
resulting from changes in the price of gold; provided, however, that such
change, effect, event, state of facts or occurrence referred to in clauses (i)
to (iv) and (vi) above, does not have a disproportionate effect on Osisko and
its subsidiaries (taken as a whole) compared to other companies of similar size
operating in the mining industry. 
62 

"Osisko Shareholders" means the holders of Osisko
Shares, and "Osisko Shareholder" means any one of them. 
"Osisko Shares" means common shares in the capital of
Osisko, and "Osisko Share" means any one of them. 
"Parties" means Osisko and the Orion Parties, and
"Party" means any of them. 
"PEA" means preliminary economic assessment. 
"Per Carat Cash Price" means the amount obtained by
multiplying (a) US$50 (subject to an increase of 1% annually after three years)
by (b) an amount equal to 20% of the weight in carats in the Subject Diamond.

"Person" means any natural person, Governmental
Authority, corporation, general or limited partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust, association, or unincorporated entity of any kind,
unless the context otherwise requires, including where an agreement is
summarized in the Circular and the term "Person" or "person" is
otherwise defined in such agreement. 
"PK" means processed kimberlite. 
"PKC" means processed kimberlite containment. 
"PMD" means potential mineral deposit. 
"Pre-Emptive Rights" has the meaning ascribed to such
term in this Circular under the heading "The Subscription Agreements –
Investor Rights Agreement – Pre-Emptive Rights". 
"Preferred Shares" means preferred shares, issuable in
series, in the capital of Osisko. 
"Pretium Exploration" means Pretium Exploration Inc.

"Pretium Resources" means Pretium Resources Inc. 
"Private Placement" means the issuance of an aggregate
of 19,272,820 Osisko Shares consisting of (i) 18,887,363 Osisko Shares at a
price of C$14.56 per Osisko Share to CDP, an affiliate of the Caisse, and the
Fonds F.T.Q. for aggregate gross proceeds of C$275 million, and (ii) 385,457
Osisko Shares on account of the capital commitment fee payable in Osisko Shares
to CDP and the Fonds F.T.Q. 
"Private Placement Closing" means the closing of the
Private Placement. 
"Private Placement Closing Date" means the date on which
Private Placement Closing occurs. 
"Private Placement Shares" means the 19,272,820 Osisko
Shares issuable pursuant to the Private Placement. 
"Provisional Payment Amount" means a provisional payment
equal to 90% of the product of (i) the number of ounces of refined gold credited
to Orion Stream II and BTO and (ii) the London Bullion Market Association a.m.
gold price. 
63 

"Proxy" means the form of proxy (on yellow paper)
delivered to Osisko Shareholders or any other proper proxy form. 
"Proxy Solicitation Agent" means Laurel Hill Advisory
Group. 
"Purchase Price" means the Cash Consideration and
the Share Consideration. 
"Purchase Right" means the right of Pretium Exploration
to purchase the stream obligation under the Brucejack Stream Agreement. 
"QA/QC" means quality assurance and quality control.

"QBCA" means the Business Corporations Act
(Québec) and the regulations made thereunder. 
"Québec Mining Act" means the Mining Act (Québec)
(RSQ, c. M-13.1). 
"qualified persons" or "QP" has the meaning
ascribed to such term in NI 43-101. 
"RACS" means remote avalanche control system. 
"RC" means reverse circulation. 
"Record Date" means June 19, 2017. 
"Refined Precious Metals" means refined gold and refined
silver produced at the Brucejack project. 
"Registered Osisko Shareholder" means a registered
holder of Osisko Shares as recorded in the shareholder register of Osisko
maintained by CST Trust Company. 
"Regulations" means all rules, regulations and
directions in effect from time to time and made by any Governmental Authority
having jurisdiction over the parties to the Acquisition Agreement or the
transactions contemplated thereby. 
"Renard Buyers" means one or more of Orion Steam I's
designated affiliates and/or respective limited partners or investors. 
"Renard Deposit" means US$250 million. 
"Renard Kimberlite Pipes" means the kimberlites known as
Renard 1, 2, 3, 4, 65, 7, 8, 9 and 10 located on the Foxtrot Property. 
"Renard Mine" means the Renard Diamond Mine located in
the James Bay region of north-central Québec operated by Stornoway. 
"Renard Stream" has the meaning ascribed to such term in
Schedule "E" – "Information Concerning the Resulting Company as of June 28,
2017" to this Circular under the heading "Description of the Business of
the Resulting Company". 
"Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of
Diamonds" means the streaming agreement for the forward sale of diamonds
dated July 8, 2014 among FCDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of SDCI, Orion Stream I
and the Renard Buyers. 
"Replacement Options" means the replacement Options
granted pursuant to a plan of arrangement involving Osisko, Virginia and 9081798
Canada Inc., which took effect on February 17, 2015.
64 

"Resource Capital" means Resource Capital Fund VI L.P.

"Resulting Company" means Osisko and all of its
subsidiaries immediately following the completion of the Acquisition. 
"ROM" means run-of-mine. 
"Royalty Agreement" means the restated Royalty Agreement
between DIAQUEM Inc. and SDCI dated April 1, 2011. 
"RSU Plan" means the restricted share unit plan of
Osisko in effect since April 30, 2014. 
"SASA" means SASA Mine DOOEL Makedonska Kamenica. 
"SASA Payable Silver" under the SASA Stream
Agreement, means the applicable percentage as follows: (a) Pb Conc - 95% payable
after a deduction of 50 grams per dmt; and (b) Zn Conc - 65% payable after a
deduction of 3 ounces per dmt. 
"SASA Stream Agreement" means the silver purchase and
sale agreement dated September 1, 2016, as amended, between Lynx Metals, as
purchaser, and SASA, as seller. 
"Saskatchewan Research Council" means Saskatchewan
Research Council Geoanalytical Laboratories. 
"SDCI" means Stornoway Diamonds (Canada) Inc.
"SEC" means the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission. 
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act
(Québec) and the rules, regulations and published policies made thereunder. 
"Securities Authorities" means all applicable securities
regulatory authorities, including the applicable securities commission or
similar regulatory authorities in each of the provinces and territories of
Canada and the SEC. 
"Securities Laws" means Canadian Securities Laws and
U.S. Securities Laws and all other applicable securities Laws and applicable
stock exchange rules and listing standards, including those of the NYSE and TSX.

"SEDAR" means the System for Electronic Document
Analysis and Retrieval. 
"Share Consideration" means the 30,906,594 Osisko Shares
issuable to the Orion Parties in satisfaction of a portion of the Purchase Price
pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement. 
"Share Issuance Resolution" means the ordinary
resolution of the Osisko Shareholders voting at the Meeting, in person or by
proxy, approving the issuance of the Osisko Shares constituting the Share
Consideration and the Private Placement Shares, substantially in the form set
out in Schedule "A" – "Resolutions to be Approved at the Meeting" to this
Circular. 
"Shareholder Participation Agreement" means the
agreement between Osisko and the Designated Orion Shareholders to be entered
into at the Acquisition Closing pursuant to which, among other things,
the Designated Orion Shareholders will agree to certain terms and conditions in
connection with their ownership of the Osisko Shares comprising the Share
Consideration. 
"Silver Purchase Price" means the purchase price for the
Amulsar Designated Silver Percentage. 
"Silver Standard" means Silver Standard Resources Inc.

65 

"Snowden" means Snowden Mining Industry Consultants Inc.

"spt" means stones per tonne. 
"SRC" means Saskatchewan Research Council Geoanalytical
Laboratories. 
"Stornoway" means Stornoway Diamond Corporation or, if
the context requires, its wholly owned subsidiary, SDCI. 
"Stock Option Plan" means the stock option plan of
Osisko approved by Osisko Shareholders on May 30, 2014. 
"Subject Diamonds" means (a) until the Renard Buyers
have been delivered six million carats of diamonds, all run of mine diamonds
derived from the Renard Diamond Mine, and (b) after such amount of carats are
delivered to the Renard Buyers, all run of mine diamonds derived from the
life-of-mine kimberlites. 
"Subject Diamond Interest" has the meaning ascribed to
such term in Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired
Assets as of June 28, 2017" to this Circular under the heading
"Description of Material Assets – The Renard Stream"; 
"Subscription Agreements" means, together, the CDP
Subscription Agreement and the Fonds F.T.Q. Subscription Agreement. 
"Subsidiary" means, with respect to a specified body
corporate, any body corporate of which the specified body corporate is entitled
to elect a majority of the directors thereof and shall include any body
corporate, partnership, joint venture or other entity over which such specified
body corporate exercises direction or control or which is in a like relation to
such a body corporate, excluding any body corporate in respect of which such
direction or control is not exercised by the specified body corporate as a
result of any existing contract, agreement or commitment. 
"Supplementary Information Request" has the meaning
ascribed to such term in this Circular under the heading "The Acquisition –
Canadian Competition Act Approval". 
"t" means metric ton (tonne). 
"TBMPL" means Thunder Bay Mineral Processing Laboratory.

"TFFE" means target for further exploration. 
"Threshold Amount" has the meaning ascribed to such term
in this Circular under the heading "The Acquisition Agreement –
Indemnification – Limitation on Indemnification Amounts". 
"Third Party Technical Reports" has the meaning ascribed
to such term in Schedule "D" to this Circular under the heading "Acquired
Material Properties". 
"TitheCo" or "Orion TitheCo Limited" means Orion
TitheCo Limited. 
"Transfer Agent" means CST Trust Company. 
"Tribunal" has the meaning ascribed to such term in this
Circular under the heading "The Acquisition – Canadian Competition Act
Approval". 
"Triggering Event" means a change of control or transfer
of substantially all assets of Pretium Resources, Pretium Exploration or any
other Pretium Resources entity. 
"Triggering Event Amount" means the greater of the
following amounts (a) 13.6% of consideration received as a result of such
Triggering Event which is attributable to the Brucejack project, and (b) an
amount equal to the product of $150 million and (1.15)D/365, where "D" is the number of
days from the date of the Brucejack Stream Agreement to the date of completion
of such Triggering Event. 
66 

"TSX" means Toronto Stock Exchange. 
"U.S. Exchange Act" means the United States
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time. 
"U.S. Securities Act" means the United States
Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time. 
"U.S. Securities Laws" means all applicable securities
legislation in the U.S., including without limitation, the U.S. Securities Act
and the U.S. Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,
including judicial and administrative interpretations thereof, and the
securities laws of the states of the U.S. 
"U.S. Securityholders" means those Osisko
securityholders that are U.S. residents. 
"V" means volts. 
"Valard" means Valard Construction. 
"Valley of the Kings" has the meaning ascribed to such
term in Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as
of June 28, 2017" to this Circular under the heading "Acquired Material
Properties – Brucejack Gold Mine – History and Exploration". 
"Valuation Samples" means the parcels of diamonds
recovered during the 2007 bulk sampling program from the Renard 2, 3 and 4
kimberlite pipes. 
"Virginia" means Virginia Mines Inc. 
"Voting Agreement" means an agreement between Osisko and
the Designated Orion Shareholder to be entered into at the Acquisition Closing.

"Warrants" means the outstanding warrants to purchase
Osisko Shares granted or otherwise issued by Osisko. 
"Western Copper" means Western Copper and Gold
Corporation. 
"WWW IDC" means WWW International Diamond Consultants
Ltd. 
67 

CONSENT OF MAXIT CAPITAL LP 

 
 To: 
 The Directors of Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
 
We have read the management information circular of Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd ("Osisko") dated June 29, 2017 (the "Circular")
relating to the special meeting of shareholders of Osisko to be held to approve
an ordinary resolution authorizing the issuance of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares (as
defined in the Circular), comprised of (i) 30,906,594 Osisko Shares to be issued
as the Share Consideration (as defined in the Circular), and (ii) 19,272,820
Osisko Shares to be issued in connection with the Private Placement (as defined
in the Circular). 
We consent to the inclusion in the Circular of our fairness
opinion dated June 4, 2017, a summary of our fairness opinion and references to
our firm name and our fairness opinion in the Circular. 
(signed) "Maxit Capital LP" 
Toronto, Ontario June 29, 2017 
68 

SCHEDULE "A" 
RESOLUTIONS TO BE APPROVED AT THE MEETING 
SHARE ISSUANCE RESOLUTION 
WHEREAS Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd ("Osisko") has entered into an Acquisition Agreement dated
June 4, 2017 (the "Acquisition Agreement") with Orion Mine Finance
(Master) Fund I LP, Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion
Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC, Orion Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments
IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited, and Lynx Metals Limited (collectively, the
"Orion Parties") whereby, subject to the terms and conditions of the
Acquisition Agreement, Osisko will acquire all of the Orion Parties' right,
title and interest in 74 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes (the
"Acquired Assets"), directly or through the acquisition of shares or
other equity ownership interests of entities owned by the Orion Parties (the
"Acquisition"), all as more fully described in the management information
circular of Osisko dated June 29, 2017 (the "Circular"); 
AND WHEREAS under the
terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Orion Parties will receive, in exchange
for the sale of the Acquired Assets, consideration comprised of (i) C$675
million in cash, subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the
Acquisition Agreement (the "Cash Consideration"), and (ii) 30,906,594
Osisko Shares (as defined herein) (the "Share Consideration"), all as
more fully described in the Circular; 
AND WHEREAS pursuant to
the Acquisition Agreement, each person designated by the Orion Parties to
receive the Share Consideration in connection with the closing of the
Acquisition has agreed to enter into a voting agreement (the "Voting
Agreement") with Osisko, all as more fully described in the Circular; 
AND WHEREAS Osisko has
entered into a subscription agreement with each of CDP Investissements Inc., an
affiliate of the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (C$200 million) and the
Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) (C$75 million)
(together, the "Subscription Agreements") pursuant to which Osisko wishes
to complete a private placement financing of 18,887,363 common shares in the
capital of Osisko ("Osisko Shares") at a price of C$14.56 per Osisko
Share for aggregate gross proceeds of C$275 million (the "Private
Placement"), to partially fund the Cash Consideration, all as more fully
described in the Circular; 
AND WHEREAS the Private
Placement is subject to a seven percent capital commitment fee payable in Osisko
Shares (two percent) and cash (five percent), which would result in the issuance
of an additional 385,457 Osisko Shares to CDP Investissements Inc. and the Fonds
de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.); 
AND WHEREAS Osisko, in
accordance with Section 611(c) of the TSX Company Manual (which requires
shareholder approval in those instances where the number of securities issued or
issuable in payment of the purchase price of an acquisition exceeds 25% of the
number of securities of the listed issuer which are outstanding, on a
non-diluted basis), wishes to obtain the requisite shareholder approval of (i)
the issuance of the Osisko Shares comprising the Share Consideration, and (ii)
the issuance of the Osisko Shares under the Private Placement to partially fund
the Cash Consideration; 
AND WHEREAS Osisko has
agreed to issue an aggregate of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares in connection with the
Acquisition and Private Placement, representing approximately 47.0% of the
issued and outstanding Osisko Shares as of the date of this Circular; 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED BY ORDINARY RESOLUTION THAT: 

 
 1. 
 
 The issuance of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares comprised
 of:

 
 
 (i) 
 
 30,906,594 Osisko Shares to be issued in payment of the
 Share Consideration pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition
 Agreement;
A-1 

 
 
 (ii) 
 
 18,887,363 Osisko Shares to be issued under the Private
 Placement to partially fund the Cash Consideration, pursuant to the terms
 of the Subscription Agreements; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 385,457 Osisko Shares to be issued to CDP Investissements
 Inc. and the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec (F.T.Q.) as
 partial payment (two percent), in Osisko Shares, of the seven percent
 capital commitment fee payable in connection with the Private
 Placement,
all as more fully described in the
Circular, is hereby approved. 

 
 2. 
 
 The entering into by Osisko of the Voting Agreement in
 connection with the closing of the Acquisition, all as more fully
 described in the Circular, is hereby approved and confirmed.
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 Any officer or director of Osisko is hereby authorized
 and directed for and on behalf of Osisko to execute or cause to be
 executed, under the corporate seal of Osisko or otherwise, and to deliver
 or cause to be delivered all such other documents and instruments and to
 perform or cause to be performed all such other acts and things as, in
 such person's opinion, may be necessary or desirable to give full force
 and effect to the foregoing resolutions and the matters authorized
 thereby, such determination to be conclusively evidenced by the execution
 and delivery of such other document or instrument or the doing of any
 other such act or thing.
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 The board of directors of Osisko be and it is authorized
 to abandon all or any part of these resolutions at any time prior to
 giving effect thereto.
A-2 

SCHEDULE "B" 
FAIRNESS OPINION OF MAXIT CAPITAL 
See attached. 
B-1 

 
Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, Suite 830
Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 
June 4, 2017 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens,Suite 300, P.O. Box 211 Montreal, QC, H3B 2S2 
To the Board of Directors: 
Maxit Capital LP ("Maxit Capital", "we" or
"us") understands that Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd ("Osisko" or the
"Company") is proposing to enter into an Acquisition Agreement (the
"Acquisition Agreement") with Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP,
Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC,
Orion Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited,
and Lynx Metals Limited (collectively, the "Sellers") whereby, subject to
the terms and conditions of the Acquisition Agreement, Osisko will acquire all
of the Sellers' right, title and interest in a portfolio of 74 royalty, stream
and precious metal offtake assets (the "Purchased Assets"), directly or
indirectly through the acquisition of equity ownership interests of wholly-owned
or partially-owned entities of the Sellers (the "Acquisition"). 
We further understand that: 

 
 
 a) 
 
 pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the
 Sellers will receive, in exchange for the Purchased Assets, total
 consideration of C$1,125 million (the "Purchase Price") comprised
 of (i) C$675 million in cash (the "Cash Consideration"), and (ii)
 C$450 million in common shares of Osisko (the "Share
 Consideration");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 b) 
 
 in connection with the Acquisition, Osisko will complete
 a concurrent equity private placement with the Caisse de dépôt et
 placement du Québec ("CDPQ") and the Fonds de solidarité FTQ
 ("FTQ") for aggregate gross proceeds of C$275 million (the
 "Private Placement"), subject to a 7% capital commitment fee
 payable 5% in cash and 2% in common shares of Osisko ("Osisko
 Shares");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 c) 
 
 to effect the Acquisition and Private Placement, the
 Company will issue (the "Share Issuance") approximately 50.2
 million Osisko Shares, consisting of approximately (i) 30.9 million Osisko
 Shares to be issued as the Share Consideration, and (ii) 19.3 million
 Osisko Shares to be issued under the Private Placement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 d) 
 
 upon completion of the Private Placement and the
 Acquisition, the Sellers, CDPQ and FTQ will control respectively
 approximately 19.7%, 12.1% and 5.5% of the pro forma Osisko
 Shares;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 e) 
 
 to fund the Cash Consideration, the proceeds of the
 Private Placement will be used, along with a draw of approximately C$150
 million under Osisko's revolving credit facility and approximately C$250
 million of existing cash reserves;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 f) 
 
 the completion of the Private Placement and the
 Acquisition will be conditional upon, among other things, approval of the
 Share Issuance by a majority of votes cast by shareholders of Osisko
 ("Osisko Shareholders") at a special meeting of the Osisko
 Shareholders (the "Osisko Meeting"); and
B-2 

 
 
 g) 
 
 the terms and conditions of the Private Placement and the
 Acquisition will be more fully described in a management information
 circular (the "Circular") which will be prepared by the management
 of Osisko and mailed to the Osisko Shareholders prior to the Osisko
 Meeting.
Engagement of Maxit Capital 
By letter agreement dated June 4, 2017 (the "Engagement
Agreement"), the Company retained Maxit Capital to act as financial advisor
in connection with the Acquisition. Pursuant to the Engagement Agreement, the
Company has requested that we prepare and deliver a written opinion (the
"Opinion") as to the fairness, from a financial point of view, of the
Purchase Price to be paid by Osisko for the Purchased Assets. 
Maxit Capital will be paid a fixed fee for rendering this
Opinion, no portion of which is conditional upon this Opinion being favourable.
Maxit Capital will also be paid an additional fee if the Acquisition is
completed. The Company has also agreed to reimburse Maxit Capital for its
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses and to indemnify Maxit Capital in respect of
certain liabilities that might arise out of our engagement. 
Credentials of Maxit Capital 
Maxit Capital is an independent advisory firm with expertise in
mergers and acquisitions. The Opinion expressed herein is the opinion of Maxit
Capital and the form and content herein have been approved for release by its
managing partners, each of whom is experienced in merger, acquisition,
divestiture and valuation matters. 
Independence of Maxit Capital 
Neither Maxit Capital, nor any of our affiliates, is an
insider, associate or affiliate (as those terms are defined in the Securities
Act (Ontario) or the rules made thereunder) of the Company, the Sellers, or
any of their respective associates or affiliates (collectively, the
"Interested Parties"). 
Maxit Capital has not been engaged to provide any financial
advisory services nor has it participated in any financings involving the
Interested Parties within the past two years, other than acting as financial
advisor to the Company pursuant to the Engagement Agreement. 
Other than as described in the Engagement Agreement, there are
no other understandings, agreements or commitments between Maxit Capital and any
of the Interested Parties with respect to any current or future business
dealings which would be material to the Opinion. Maxit Capital may, in the
ordinary course of business, provide financial advisory, investment banking, or
other financial services to one or more of the Interested Parties from time to
time. 
Scope of Review 
In connection with rendering our Opinion, we have reviewed and
relied upon, among other things, the following: 

 
 
 i. 
 
 a draft of the Acquisition Agreement dated June 2,
 2017;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ii. 
 
 the annual reports, including the comparative audited
 consolidated financial statements and management's discussion and
 analysis, of the Company for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016,
 December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 iii. 
 
 the interim reports, including the comparative unaudited
 consolidated financial statements and management's discussion and
 analysis, of the Company for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and
 September 30, 2016;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 iv. 
 
 the annual information forms of the Company for the
 fiscal years ended December 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and December 31,
 2014;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 v. 
 
 certain internal financial, operating, corporate and
 other information prepared or provided by or on behalf of the Company and
 Sellers concerning the business operations, assets, liabilities and
 prospects of the Company and the Sellers;
B-3 

 
 
 vi. 
 
 internal management forecasts, development and operating
 projections, estimates (including future estimates of mineable resources)
 and budgets prepared or provided by or on behalf of the Company and the
 Sellers;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 vii. 
 
 discussions with management of the Company relating to
 the business and financial condition of the Company and the
 Sellers;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 viii. 
 
 select public market trading statistics and relevant
 financial information of the Company and other public entities;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ix. 
 
 select financial statistics and relevant financial
 information with respect to relevant precedent transactions;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 x. 
 
 select reports published by equity research analysts and
 industry sources regarding the Company and other comparable public
 entities;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 xi. 
 
 a certificate addressed to us, dated as of the date
 hereof, from two senior officers of the Company as to the completeness and
 accuracy of the Information (as defined below); and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 xii. 
 
 such other information, analyses, investigations, and
 discussions as we considered necessary or appropriate in the
 circumstances.
Maxit Capital has also participated in discussions regarding
the Private Placement, Acquisition and related matters with Bennett Jones LLP,
legal counsel to Company. 
In addition, we have participated in discussions with members
of the senior management of the Sellers and their legal and financial advisors
regarding its businesses, operations, financial condition, prospects and related
matters. 
Assumptions and Limitations 
Our Opinion is subject to the assumptions, qualifications and
limitations set forth below. We have not been asked to prepare, and have not
prepared, a formal valuation or appraisal of any of the assets or securities of
the Company or its affiliates and our Opinion should not be construed as such.

With your permission, we have relied upon, and have assumed the
completeness, accuracy and fair presentation of all financial and other
information, including information provided by the Company in relation to the
Seller, data, advice, opinions and representations obtained by us from public
sources, or provided to us by the Company or its affiliates or advisors or
otherwise obtained by us pursuant to our engagement, and our Opinion is
conditional upon such completeness, accuracy and fair presentation. We have not
been requested to or attempted to verify independently the accuracy,
completeness or fairness of presentation of any such information, data, advice,
opinions and representations. We have not met separately with the independent
auditors of the Company in connection with preparing this Opinion and with your
permission, we have assumed the accuracy and fair presentation of, and relied
upon, the audited financial statements of the Company and the reports of the
auditors thereon and the interim unaudited financial statements of the Company.

With respect to the historical financial data, operating and
financial forecasts and budgets provided to us concerning the Company and relied
upon in our financial analyses, we have assumed that they have been reasonably
prepared on bases reflecting the most reasonable assumptions, estimates and
judgments of management of the Company, having regard to the Company's business,
plans, financial condition and prospects. 
The Company has represented to us, in a certificate of two
senior officers of the Company dated the date hereof, among other things, that
(i) the information, data and other material (financial or otherwise) provided
to us by or on behalf of the Company, including the written information and
discussions concerning the Company referred to above under the heading "Scope of
Review" (collectively, the "Information"), are complete, true and correct
in all material respects at the date the Information was provided to us and did
not and does not contain a misrepresentation (as defined in the Securities
Act (Ontario)), and (ii) since the date on which the Information was
provided to us, there has been no material change, financial or otherwise, in
the financial condition, assets, liabilities (contingent or otherwise),
business, operations or prospects of the Company or any of its affiliates and no
material change has occurred in the Information or any part thereof. 
We are not legal, tax or accounting experts and we express no
opinion concerning any legal, tax or accounting matters concerning the
Acquisition or the sufficiency of this letter for your purposes. Our Opinion is
rendered on the basis of securities markets, economic and general business and
financial conditions prevailing as at the date hereof and the conditions and
prospects, financial and otherwise, of the Company as they are reflected in the
Information and as they were represented to us in our discussions with
management of the Company and its affiliates and advisors. In our analyses and
in connection with the preparation of our Opinion, we made numerous assumptions
with respect to industry performance, general business, markets and economic
conditions and other matters, many of which are beyond the control of any party
involved in the Private Placement or the Acquisition. 
B-4 

The Opinion is being provided to the Board of Directors for its
 exclusive use only in considering the Acquisition and may not be published,
 disclosed to any other person, relied upon by any other person, or used for any
 other purpose, without the prior written consent of Maxit Capital, provided that
 the Opinion may be reproduced in full in the Circular. Our Opinion does not
 address the relative merits of the Acquisition as compared to other business
 strategies or transactions that might be available to the Company or in which
 the Company might engage. Our Opinion is not intended to be and does not
 constitute a recommendation to any Osisko Shareholders with respect to the
 Acquisition. Additionally, we do not express any opinion as to the prices at
which the Osisko Shares may trade at any time. 
Maxit Capital believes that its financial analyses must be
considered as a whole and that selecting portions of its analyses and the
factors considered by it, without considering all factors and analyses together,
could create a misleading view of the process underlying the Opinion. The
preparation of an opinion is complex and is not necessarily susceptible to
partial analysis or summary description and any attempt to carry out such could
lead to undue emphasis on any particular factor or analysis. 
The Opinion is given as of the date hereof and, although we
reserve the right to change or withdraw the Opinion if we learn that any of the
Information that we relied upon in preparing the Opinion was inaccurate,
incomplete or misleading in any material respect, we disclaim any obligation to
change or withdraw the Opinion, to advise any person of any change that may come
to our attention or to update the Opinion after the date of this Opinion. 
Opinion 
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and such other matters
as we considered relevant, it is our opinion, as of the date hereof, that the
Purchase Price to be paid by Osisko pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement is
fair, from a financial point of view, to Osisko. 
Yours very truly, 
(signed) "Maxit Capital LP" 
Maxit Capital LP 
B-5 

SCHEDULE "C" 
INFORMATION CONCERNING OSISKO AS OF JUNE 28, 2017 
The following information concerning Osisko should be read in
conjunction with the information described below under "Documents
Incorporated by Reference" and the information concerning Osisko appearing
elsewhere in the Circular. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in
this Schedule "C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017"
shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Circular. See "Glossary of
Terms". 
Documents Incorporated by Reference 
Information has been incorporated by reference in the
Circular from documents filed with securities commissions or similar authorities
in Canada. Copies of the documents incorporated herein by reference may be
obtained on request without charge from André Le Bel, Vice President, Legal
Affairs and Corporate Secretary, at 1100 avenue des Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite
300, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 2S2. Alternatively, these documents may be
obtained at Osisko's website at www.osiskogr.com, and are also available
under Osisko's issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at
www.sec.gov. 
The following documents ("documents incorporated by
reference") of Osisko are specifically incorporated by reference herein and
form an integral part of the Circular: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 the annual information form of Osisko for the financial
 year ended December 31, 2016, dated March 21, 2017 (the
 "AIF");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 the audited consolidated financial statements of Osisko
 as at and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015,
 together with the notes thereto (the "Annual Financial Statements")
 and the auditor's report thereon, dated March 15, 2017;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 the management's discussion and analysis of Osisko
 relating to the Annual Financial Statements, dated March 15,
 2017;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Osisko
 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, together
 with the notes thereto, dated May 4, 2017 (the "Interim Financial
 Statements");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 the management's discussion and analysis of Osisko
 relating to the Interim Financial Statements, dated May 4, 2017;
 and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 the MIC dated March 31, 2017, distributed in connection
 with the annual and special meeting of Osisko Shareholders held on May 4,
 2017.
Any document of the type referred to above in (a) through (f)
and any other document of the type required by National Instrument 44-101 –
Short Form Prospectus Distributions or Regulation 44-101 respecting
Short Form Prospectus Distributions to be incorporated by reference in a
short form prospectus filed by Osisko with a securities commission or similar
regulatory authority in Canada after the date of the Circular and prior to the
date of completion of the Acquisition will be deemed to be incorporated by
reference in the Circular. 
Any statement contained in a document incorporated or deemed to
be incorporated by reference herein will be deemed to be modified or superseded,
for purposes of the Circular, to the extent that a statement contained herein or
in any other subsequently filed document which also is or is deemed to be
incorporated by reference herein modifies or supersedes such statement. The
modifying or superseding statement need not state that it has modified or
superseded a prior statement or include any other information set forth in the
document that it modifies or supersedes. The making of a modifying or
superseding statement will not be deemed an admission for any purposes that the
modified or superseded statement, when made, constituted a misrepresentation, an
untrue statement of a material fact or an omission to state a material fact that
is required to be stated or that is necessary to make a statement not misleading in light of the circumstances in which
it was made. Any statement so modified or superseded will not be deemed, except
as so modified or superseded, to constitute part of the Circular. 
C-1 

Summary Description of the Business 
Osisko is a public company traded on the TSX and the NYSE and
is domiciled in the Province of Québec, Canada. Osisko is focused on acquiring
and managing precious metal and other high-quality royalties and streams and
similar interests in the Americas. The cornerstone assets include the 5% NSR
royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine located in Malartic, Québec and the
sliding scale 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore mine, located in the
James Bay area in Québec. Osisko has also entered into a silver stream agreement
with Taseko Mines Limited on the Gibraltar mine located in British Columbia (in
February 2017) and owns a portfolio of royalties, options on royalties/stream
financing and exclusive rights to participate in future royalty/stream
financings on various projects in Canada and the United States. In addition,
Osisko invests in equities of exploration, development and royalty companies.

Osisko's head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 2S2. 
Technical Information 
Luc Lessard, Eng., who is a "qualified person" for the purpose
of NI 43-101, is named in the AIF as having reviewed and approved certain
scientific and technical information as set out under the heading "Material
Mineral Project – The Canadian Malartic Royalty" with respect to the
Canadian Malartic Royalty. Paul Archer, M.Sc., Eng., who is a "qualified person"
for the purpose of NI 43-101 is named in the AIF as having reviewed and approved
certain scientific and technical information as set out under the heading
"Material Mineral Project – The Éléonore Royalty" with respect to the
Éléonore Royalty. 
Material Mineral Projects 
Osisko considers the Canadian Malartic Royalty and the Éléonore
Royalty to currently be its only material mineral projects for the purposes of
NI 43-101. Information with respect to each of the Canadian Malartic Royalty and
the Éléonore Royalty may be reviewed under the headings "Material Mineral
Project – The Canadian Malartic Royalty" and "Material Mineral Project –
The Éléonore Royalty ", respectively, in the AIF. 
Subsequent to the AIF, on April 19, 2017, the Government of
Québec announced the issuance of two decrees authorizing the Canadian Malartic
General Partnership to carry out the proposed expansion of the Canadian Malartic
mine and the diversion of Highway 117 in Malartic. The preparatory work for this
project will begin after obtaining the certificates of authorization issued by
the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment and Climate Change, which
will specify the conditions for carrying out the Project. For additional
information, see the news release of Agnico Eagle Mines Limited dated April 27,
2017. 
C-2 

Consolidated Capitalization 
The following table sets out the capitalization of Osisko as at
March 31, 2017, the date of Osisko's most recently filed financial statements
and on a pro forma basis as at March 31, 2017, after giving effect to the
Acquisition, as if it had occurred on March 31, 2017. The table should be read
in conjunction with the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial
statements of Osisko attached as Schedule "G" – "Unaudited Pro Forma
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Osisko" to the Circular, as
well as with the other disclosure contained in this Schedule "C" –
"Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017" and elsewhere in the
Circular, including the risk factors described under the heading "Risk
Factors". 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at March 31, 2017 after 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 giving effect to the Acquisition
 
 
 
 
 
 As at March 31, 2017 
 
 and the Private Placement 
 
 
 
 
 (expressed in thousands of 
 
 (expressed in thousands of 
 
 
 
 
 Canadian dollars) 
 
 Canadian dollars) 
 
 
 Long Term Debt 
 
 46,005 
 
 196,005 
 
 
 Share capital(1) 
 
 910,474 
 
 1,672,839 
 
 
 Warrants 
 
 30,901 
 
 30,901 
 
 
 Contributed surplus 
 
 11,735 
 
 11,735 
 
 
 Equity component of convertible debenture 
 
 3,091 
 
 3,091 
 
 
 Accumulated other comprehensive income 
 
 9,081 
 
 9,081 
 
 
 Retained earnings 
 
 251,635 
 
 243,635 
 
 
 Non-controlling interests 
 
 1,800 
 
 1,800 
 
 
 Total equity 
 
 1,218,717 
 
 1,973,082 
 
 
 Total capitalization 
 
 1,264,722 
 
 2,169,087 
____________________
Note: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Consisting of 106,593,350 Osisko Shares issued and
 outstanding as of March 31, 2017 and 50,179,414 Osisko Shares issued and
 outstanding as of March 31, 2017 after giving effect to the Acquisition
 and the Private Placement, but assuming that no Warrants or Options have
 been exercised to purchase Osisko Shares.
Other than as set forth in the table below, there has been no
material change in the consolidated capitalization of Osisko since March 31,
2017: 

 
 Description of Security 
 Number Authorized as at
 the date of this Circular 
 Number Outstanding as of
 March 31, 2017 
 Number Outstanding as of
 the date of this Circular 
 
 Common Shares 
 Unlimited 
 106,593,350 
 106,743,944 
 
 Preferred Shares 
 In Series 
 Nil 
 Nil 
 
 Options 
 Not Applicable 
 3,014,333 
 3,614,861 
 
 Warrants 
 Not Applicable 
 11,195,500 
11,195,500 
C-3 

Description of Shares 
Osisko is authorized to issue an unlimited number of Osisko
Shares without nominal or par value. 
Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to the
Preferred Shares and to the terms of the Osisko amended and restated shareholder
rights plan dated May 4, 2017, the rights, privileges, conditions and
restrictions attaching to the Osisko Shares, as a class, are equal in all
respects and include the following rights: 
Dividends 
Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to any series
of Preferred Shares, the holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the right to
receive, if, as and when declared by the Board, any dividend on such dates and
for such amounts as the Board may from time to time determine. 
Participation in case of Dissolution or Liquidation 
Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to any series
of Preferred Shares, the holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the right, upon
the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Osisko, to receive the remaining
property of Osisko. 
Right to Vote 
The holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the right to one
(1) vote at any meeting of the Osisko Shareholders, except meetings at which
only holders of any series of Preferred Shares are entitled to vote. 
Redemption and Repurchases 
As at June 28, 2017, 106,743,944 Osisko Shares were issued and
outstanding. 
On October 17, 2016, Osisko announced that the TSX had approved
its notice of intention to make a normal course issuer bid (the "NCIB
Program"). Under the terms of the NCIB Program, Osisko may acquire up to
5,330,217 Osisko Shares from time to time in accordance with the normal course
issuer bid procedures of the TSX. As at June 28, 2017, Osisko had purchased
150,000 Osisko Shares under the NCIB Program. Osisko has appointed Macquarie
Capital Markets Canada Ltd. to make any purchases under the NCIB Program on its
behalf. 
Information with respect to the Preferred Shares may be
reviewed under the heading "Description of Capital Structure – Preferred
Shares", in the AIF. As at June 28, 2017, no Preferred Shares were issued
and outstanding. 
Prior Sales 
Other than as described below, during the two-year period
before the date of this Circular, Osisko has not issued any other Osisko Shares
or securities that are convertible or exchangeable into Osisko Shares. 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security
 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for
 Issuance 
 
 June 28, 2017 
 5,420 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2) 
 
 June 27, 2017 
 100 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Exercise of Osisko Options(4)
 
 
 June 26, 2017 
 3,333 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko Options(4)
 
 
 June 15, 2017 
 1,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko Options(4)
 
 
 June 15, 2017 
 1,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$15.80 
 Exercise of Osisko Options(4)
 
 
 June 15, 2017 
 1,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko Options(4)

C-4 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security
 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for
 Issuance 
 
 June 15, 2017 
 5,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$15.80 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 June 14, 2017 
 5,473 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 13, 2017 
 1,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 June 12, 2017 
 1,806 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 9, 2017 
 5,476 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 9, 2017 
 5,484 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 9, 2017 
 5,481 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 9, 2017 
 5,478 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 9, 2017 
 4,968 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 9, 2017 
 1,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$15.80 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 June 9, 2017 
 1,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 June 9, 2017 
 8,209 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 7, 2017 
 726,800 
 Options 
 C$16.66 
 Annual Grant of Osisko
 Options(1) 
 
 June 6, 2017 
 4,516 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 6, 2017 
 4,516 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 6, 2017 
 4,563 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 25, 2017 
 4,560 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 23, 2017 
 8,214 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 23, 2017 
 5,487 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 19, 2017 
 4,565 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 17, 2017 
 4,567 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 11, 2017 
 5,701 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$15.05 
 Employee Share Purchase
 Plan(3) 
 
 April 26, 2017 
 2,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 April 21, 2017 
 7,226 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 17, 2017 
 21,954 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$14.62 
 Dividend Reinvestment
 Plan(5) 
 
 April 17, 2017 
 2,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 April 12, 2017 
 3,161 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 30, 2017 
 400 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 March 30, 2017 
 1,333 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 March 24, 2017 
 4,570 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 24, 2017 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.38 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 March 23, 2017 
 14,609 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 23, 2017 
 14,633 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

C-5 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security
 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for
 Issuance 
 
 March 20, 2017 
 36,600 
 Options 
 C$14.78 
 Grant of Osisko Options to
 new employees(1) 
 
 February 15, 2017 
 2,216 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 10, 2017 
 3,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 10, 2017 
 2,468 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 10, 2017 
 2,500 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 10, 2017 
 2,300 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 9, 2017 
 5,017 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 9, 2017 
 2,258 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 8, 2017 
 2,258 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 6, 2017 
 3,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 26, 2017 
 3,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 24, 2017 
 2,652 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 17, 2017 
 6,554 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$12.88 
 Employee Share Purchase
 Plan(3) 
 
 January 16, 2017 
 13,417 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.69 
 Dividend Reinvestment
 Plan(5) 
 
 January 12, 2017 
 4,200 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 5, 2017 
 3,650 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 23, 2016 
 3,650 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 19, 2016 
 3,648 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 2, 2016 
 3,656 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 17, 2016 
 49,100 
 Options 
 C$13.41 
 Grant of Osisko Options to
 newly appointed Officers(1) 
 
 November 7, 2016 
 4,560 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 4, 2016 
 5,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 October 14, 2016 
 13,744 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$12.98 
 Dividend Reinvestment
 Plan(5) 
 
 October 13, 2016 
 8,710 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$14.54 
 Employee Share Purchase
 Plan(3) 
 
 October 6, 2016 
 3,652 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 September 8, 2016 
 4,563 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 26, 2016 
 5,020 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 23, 2016 
 4,922 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 22, 2016 
 100
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 15, 2016 
 2,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$14.90 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 9, 2016 
 2,027 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 8, 2016 
 5,024 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 2,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$15.80 
 Exercise of Osisko
Options(4) 
C-6 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for Issuance
 
 
 August 5, 2016 
 2,285 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 5,484 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 5,281 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 1,800 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 1,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$15.80 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 1,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 968 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 2,572 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 4,574 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2016 
 3,779 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 4, 2016 
 200 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 4, 2016 
 800 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 4, 2016 
 10,000 
 Options 
 C$17.84 
 Grant of Osisko Options to
 new employee(1) 
 
 July 19, 2016 
 1,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 15, 2016 
 27,360 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$16.95 
 Dividend Reinvestment
 Plan(5) 
 
 July 15, 2016 
 3,661 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 14, 2016 
 1,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 14, 2016 
 3,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 14, 2016 
 3,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 14, 2016 
 2,226 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 13, 2016 
 1,017 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 12, 2016 
 7,970 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$16.79 
 Employee Share Purchase
 Plan(3) 
 
 July 11, 2016 
 1,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 11, 2016 
 1,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 8, 2016 
 5,478 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 7, 2016 
 7,226 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 7, 2016 
 3,654 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 7, 2016 
 1,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 29, 2016 
 2,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$14.90 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 29, 2016 
 1,829 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 16, 2016 
 3,161 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

C-7 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security
 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for
 Issuance 
 
 June 15, 2016 
 5,489 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 15, 2016 
 822 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 14, 2016 
 7,400 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 13, 2016 
 8,218 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 10, 2016 
 2,667 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$14.90 
 Exercise of Osisko
 Options(4) 
 
 June 9, 2016 
 5,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 9, 2016 
 2,258 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 8, 2016 
 3,661 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.85 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 30, 2016 
 3,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 20, 2016 
 1,654 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 20, 2016 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 20, 2016 
 1,800 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 20, 2016 
 1,852 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 20, 2016 
 14,639 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 19, 2016 
 3,656 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 19, 2016 
 3,658 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 19, 2016 
 3,659 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 19, 2016 
 1,563 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 19, 2016 
 3,648 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 19, 2016 
 10,737 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 18, 2016 
 3,658 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 16, 2016 
 3,656 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 16, 2016 
 3,654 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 12, 2016 
 3,652 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 12, 2016 
 3,658 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 12, 2016 
 3,659 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 12, 2016 
 3,663 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 12, 2016 
 3,661 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 12, 2016 
 3,661 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.85 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 6, 2016 
 2,258 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 6, 2016 
 2,258 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 4, 2016 
 7,301 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 May 3, 2016 
 6,797 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 22, 2016 
 7,312 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 22, 2016 
 2,710 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

C-8 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security
 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for
 Issuance 
 
 April 22, 2016 
 2,710 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 15, 2016 
 20,266 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$14.10 
 Dividend Reinvestment
 Plan(5) 
 
 April 13, 2016 
 10,205 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.54 
 Employee Share Purchase
 Plan(3) 
 
 April 4, 2016 
 8,214 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 4, 2016 
 8,209 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 4, 2016 
 8,226 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 4, 2016 
 8,222 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 4, 2016 
 8,218 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 1, 2016 
 3,654 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 1, 2016 
 8,242 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 1, 2016 
 8,234 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 April 1, 2016 
 8,231 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 30, 2016 
 9,526 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.95 
 Employee Share Purchase
 Plan(3) 
 
 March 22, 2016 
 8,238 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 21, 2016 
 1,020,600 
 Options 
 C$13.38 
 Annual Grant of Osisko
 Options(1) 
 
 March 21, 2016 
 8,238 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.85 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 15, 2016 
 3,648 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 14, 2016 
 8,248 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$5.89 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 11, 2016 
 5,000 
 Options 
 C$14.48 
 Grant of Osisko Options to
 new employee(1) 
 
 March 11, 2016 
 500 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 11, 2016 
 1,027 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 10, 2016 
 1,825 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 10, 2016 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 10, 2016 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 March 10, 2016 
 4,516 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 26, 2016 
 11,431,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$15.10 
 Prospectus
 Offering(6) 
 
 February 26, 2016 
 5,715,500 
 Osisko Warrants 
 C$19.08 
 Prospectus
 Offering(6) 
 
 February 17, 2016 
 1,825 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 11, 2016 
 2,710 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 11, 2016 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 10, 2016 
 3,613 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 10, 2016 
 3,020 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 9, 2016 
 2,736 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 8, 2016 
 2,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

C-9 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security
 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for
 Issuance 
 
 February 8, 2016 
 2,710 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 8, 2016 
 2,740 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 8, 2016 
 2,742 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 8, 2016 
 2,736 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 8, 2016 
 2,738 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 4, 2016 
 4,572 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 4, 2016 
 4,565 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 4, 2016 
 4,567 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 4, 2016 
 4,570 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 4, 2016 
 4,560 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 4, 2016 
 4,563 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 4, 2016 
 4,516 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 February 3, 2016 
 1,826 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 18, 2016 
 5,017 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 18, 2016 
 4,968 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 16, 2016 
 22,163 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.92 
 Dividend Reinvestment
 Plan(5) 
 
 January 15, 2016 
 4,968 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 14, 2016 
 9,168 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$4.65 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 14, 2016 
 8,248 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$3.49 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 14, 2016 
 8,253 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$3.89 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 12, 2016 
 3,161 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 12, 2016 
 5,024 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 12, 2016 
 4,516 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 11, 2016 
 3,613 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 January 8, 2016 
 5,022 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 17, 2015 
 3,659 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 16, 2015 
 4,516 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 14, 2015 
 4,572 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 9, 2015 
 4,560 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 8, 2015 
 18,327 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$4.23 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 2, 2015 
 20,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$4.23 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 2, 2015 
 16,502 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$4.65 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 2, 2015 
 14,646 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.85 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 2, 2015 
 14,646 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 2, 2015 
 14,664 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$5.89 
 Arrangement(2)

C-10 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security
 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for Issuance
 
 
 December 2, 2015 
 14,664 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$3.49 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 December 2, 2015 
 14,673 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$3.89 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 30, 2015 
 3,161 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 27, 2015 
 2,287 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 27, 2015 
 2,286 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 27, 2015 
 2,739 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 26, 2015 
 20,000 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$4.23 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 19, 2015 
 3,661 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.85 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 19, 2015 
 3,661 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 19, 2015 
 3,656 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 9, 2015 
 4,577 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 9, 2015 
 4,574 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 November 4, 2015 
 42,600 
 Options 
 C$13.62 
 Grant of Osisko Options to
 new employees(1) 
 
 October 15, 2015 
 11,764 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.85 
 Dividend Reinvestment
 Plan(5) 
 
 August 5, 2015 
 5,024 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2015 
 4,574 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2015 
 5,022 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.98 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 5, 2015 
 5,030 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 4, 2015 
 1,833 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$3.49 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 4, 2015 
 1,834 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$3.89 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 4, 2015 
 1,831 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 4, 2015 
 4,560 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 August 4, 2015 
 5,027 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 July 24, 2015 
 4,582 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$5.89 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 30, 2015 
 944,400(2) 
 Options 
 C$15.80 
 Annual Grant of Osisko
 Options(1) 
 
 June 4, 2015 
 2,749 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$4.23 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 456 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.83 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 457 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$9.79 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 456 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.73 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 456 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 451 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.93 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 451 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$13.62 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 10,067 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.70 
 Arrangement(2)

C-11 

 
 Date of Issuance 
 Number of
 Securities Issued 
 Type of Security
 
 Price per
 Security 
 Reason for
 Issuance 
 
 June 3, 2015 
 2,100 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 4,563 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$10.58 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 3, 2015 
 4,154 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 2, 2015 
 2,861 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.85 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 2, 2015 
 3,661 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 2, 2015 
 2,975 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.85 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 2, 2015 
 3,661 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.68 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 2, 2015 
 4,582 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$5.89 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 2, 2015 
 4,579 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.09 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 2, 2015 
 4,574 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 2, 2015 
 5,487 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 1, 2015 
 8,234 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$7.84 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 1, 2015 
 8,231 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$8.35 
 Arrangement(2)

 
 June 1, 2015 
 800 
 Osisko Shares 
 C$6.85 
 Arrangement(2)

____________________
Note: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Options granted pursuant to the terms of the Stock Option
 Plan.
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 The Options exercised represent Replacement
 Options.
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 
 The Osisko Shares were issued pursuant to the employee
 share purchase plan of Osisko, which was implemented on October 1,
 2015.
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 
 The Options exercised represent Options granted pursuant
 to the Stock Option Plan.
 
 
 
 
 (5) 
 
 The Osisko Shares were issued pursuant to the dividend
 reinvestment plan of Osisko, which was implemented on September 21,
 2015.
 
 
 
 
 (6) 
 
 The Osisko Shares and Warrants were issued in connection
 with a C$173 million bought deal public offering by way of a short form
 prospectus, which closed on February 26, 2016.
In October 2016, Osisko Mining Inc. hired Osisko's Québec City
based exploration team (former employees of Virginia), which resulted in the
forfeiture of 266,100 Options in December 2016. In the past two years, a total
of 314,433 Options were forfeited, 4,333 Options expired and 30,712 Replacement
Options expired. 
C-12 

Trading Price and Volume 
Osisko Shares 
The following table sets forth the price range and trading
volume for the Osisko Shares on the TSX and the NYSE, for the periods indicated.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TSX 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NYSE(1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 
 (US$) 
 
 (US$) 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 June 
 
 17.65 
 
 15.20 
 
 11,292,972 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 July 
 
 17.90 
 
 15.85 
 
 7,646,794 
 
 
 
 13.80 
 
 11.98 
 
 
 1,535,182 
 
 
 August 
 
 18.64 
 
 14.51 
 
 7,699,966 
 
 
 
 14.74 
 
 11.05 
 
 
 3,386,790 
 
 
 September 
 
 16.43 
 
 14.25 
 
 13,284,491 
 
 
 
 12.80 
 
 10.82 
 
 
 1,965,274 
 
 
 October 
 
 14.40 
 
 12.34 
 
 9,450,834 
 
 
 
 10.98 
 
 9.38 
 
 
 1,812,720 
 
 
 November 
 
 14.89 
 
 12.37 
 
 10,359,517 
 
 
 
 11.13 
 
 9.10 
 
 
 2,426,814 
 
 
 December 
 
 13.79 
 
 11.90 
 
 15,830,467 
 
 
 
 10.35 
 
 8.88 
 
 
 8,368,039 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 
 14.46 
 
 12.97 
 
 10,921,647 
 
 
 
 11.07 
 
 9.64 
 
 
 4,727,049 
 
 
 February 
 
 15.90 
 
 14.12 
 
 10,137,946 
 
 
 
 12.07 
 
 10.76 
 
 
 5,386,379 
 
 
 March 
 
 15.46 
 
 13.81 
 
 17,208.280 
 
 
 
 11.64 
 
 10.315 
 
 
 5,623,277 
 
 
 April 
 
 15.46 
 
 13.81 
 
 9,036,198 
 
 
 
 11.54 
 
 10.20 
 
 
 5,774,912 
 
 
 May 
 
 15.58 
 
 13.78 
 
 9,601,610 
 
 
 
 11.88 
 
 10.02 
 
 
 6,149,927 
 
 
 June 1-28 
 
 17.38 
 
 14.06 
 
 14,964,990 
 
 
 
 12.89 
 
 10.41 
 
 14,008,295 
____________________
Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Osisko Shares started trading on the NYSE on July 6,
 2016.
On June 28, 2017, the last trading day prior to the filing of
this Circular, the closing price of the Osisko Shares on the TSX was C$16.32 and
on the NYSE was US$12.51. 
C-13 

Warrants 
Osisko has two series of warrants currently listed on the TSX
under the symbol "OR.WT" and "OR.WT.A". 
The following table sets forth the price range and trading
volume for the warrants on the TSX, for the periods indicated. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 OR.WT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OR.WT.A(1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 
 
 ($) 
 
 ($) 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 
 ($) 
 
 ($) 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 June 
 
 3.50 
 
 2.78 
 
 44,515 
 
 
 
 3.75 
 
 2.98 
 
 150,951 
 
 
 July 
 
 4.00 
 
 3.20 
 
 35,701 
 
 
 
 4.39 
 
 3.41 
 
 79,164
 
 
 
 August 
 
 4.17 
 
 3.10 
 
 28,514 
 
 
 
 4.60 
 
 2.65 
 
 235,463 
 
 
 September 
 
 3.74 
 
 3.10 
 
 55,914 
 
 
 
 3.50 
 
 2.53 
 
 264,296 
 
 
 October 
 
 3.60 
 
 2.70 
 
 41,601 
 
 
 
 3.20 
 
 1.88 
 
 127,943 
 
 
 November 
 
 3.14 
 
 2.50 
 
 33,534 
 
 
 
 3.00 
 
 2.35 
 
 84,810
 
 
 
 December 
 
 2.85 
 
 2.35 
 
 59,830 
 
 
 
 2.60 
 
 1.72 
 
 157,617 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 
 3.14 
 
 2.45 
 
 58,494 
 
 
 
 2.40 
 
 2.05 
 
 368,225 
 
 
 February 
 
 3.22 
 
 2.55 
 
 42,100 
 
 
 
 2.57 
 
 1.90 
 
 153,025 
 
 
 March 
 
 3.15 
 
 2.70 
 
 81,095 
 
 
 
 2.35 
 
 1.80 
 
 54,600
 
 
 
 April 
 
 2.80 
 
 2.45 
 
 57,164 
 
 
 
 2.30 
 
 1.77 
 
 47,250
 
 
 
 May 
 
 2.70 
 
 2.35 
 
 29,500 
 
 
 
 2.15 
 
 1.70 
 
 44,850
 
 
 
 June 1-28 
 
 2.88
 
 
 2.40
 
 
 41,540 
 
 
 
 2.96
 
 
 1.80
 
 
 138,752 
____________________
Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 The OR.WT.A started trading on February 26,
 2016.
On June 28, 2017, the last trading day prior to the filing of
this Circular, the closing prices of the warrants "OR.WT" and "OR.WT.A" on the
TSX were C$2.60 and C$2.80, respectively. 
C-14 

Risk Factors 
An investment in Osisko Shares should be considered highly
speculative and investors should carefully consider all of the information
disclosed in the Circular and the documents incorporated herein by reference. In
addition to the other information and risks factors set out elsewhere in the
Circular, including those set out under "Risk Factors" in this Schedule
"C" – "Information Concerning Osisko as of June 28, 2017", the risk
factors described in the AIF and the following risk factors should be given
special consideration by Osisko Shareholders when evaluating whether to approve
the Share Issuance Resolution. 
Osisko may fail to complete the Acquisition. 
Osisko currently expects that the Acquisition will close on or
about July 31, 2017. The Acquisition Closing is subject to a number of customary
closing conditions. The Acquisition may not close for a variety of reasons,
including if the conditions to the Acquisition Closing are not satisfied or
waived, some of which are not within the control of Osisko. In addition, even if
the Acquisition closes, the Acquisition may not close on the terms or the timing
currently expected. If the Acquisition does not close or if completed but the
terms or timing are different than expected, it could have an adverse effect on
Osisko's future capital plans. 
Osisko may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of
the Acquisition. 
Osisko is proposing to complete the Acquisition to increase and
diversify its portfolio of stream and royalty interests and to acquire offtake
agreements and to create the opportunity to realize certain benefits including
increased opportunities associated with a larger undeveloped land base,
geological and geographical diversification, commodity price upside exposure and
a diversified group of royalty, stream and offtake interests. In order to
achieve the benefits of the Acquisition, Osisko will be dependent upon the
ability of third party producers to successfully operate and develop the
underlying properties to which the royalties, stream interests and offtake
interests comprising the Acquired Assets relate. Such third party producers may
not successfully operate and/or develop such assets, or the assets may not
perform as expected. Such events could result in the production and revenue that
Osisko anticipates receiving from the Acquired Assets being lower than
anticipated. In addition, disputes between Osisko and third party producers
could arise with respect to the allocation of production or revenue. If any of
the foregoing events were to occur they may adversely affect Osisko's ability to
achieve the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. 
Osisko's due diligence with respect to the Acquired
Assets may not have identified all liabilities associated with the Acquired
Assets. 
In connection with the Acquisition, there may be liabilities
that Osisko failed to discover or was unable to quantify in its due diligence
(which Osisko conducted prior to the execution of the Acquisition Agreement).
The representations, warranties and indemnities contained in the Acquisition
Agreement are limited and Osisko's ability to seek remedies for breach of such
provisions following completion of the Acquisition will be limited. 
The evaluation of acquisitions requires an acquiror to
make certain assumptions and consider a variety of factors. 
Acquisitions of interests in mineral properties are based in
large part on engineering, environmental and economic assessments made by the
acquiror or by its independent engineers and consultants. These assessments
include a series of assumptions regarding such factors as recoverability and
marketability of commodities, environmental restrictions and prohibitions
regarding releases and emissions of various substances, future prices of
commodities, operating costs, future capital expenditures and royalties and
other government levies which will be imposed over the producing life of the
reserves. Many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond Osisko's
control. All such assessments involve a measure of geologic, engineering,
environmental and regulatory uncertainty that could result in lower production
and reserves or higher costs than anticipated. 
Although title reviews are conducted prior to any purchase of
resource assets, such reviews cannot guarantee that any unforeseen defects in
the chain of title will not arise to defeat Osisko's title to certain assets.

C-15 

The issuance of Osisko Shares to the Designated Orion
Shareholders pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement and concurrent Private
Placement will be dilutive to current Osisko Shareholders. 
Pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement and the
concurrent Private Placement, Osisko will issue 50,179,414 Osisko Shares. The
issuance of 50,179,414 Osisko Shares will represent approximately 47.0% of the
issued and outstanding Osisko Shares and will be dilutive to Osisko
Shareholders. The future sale of a substantial number of the Osisko Shares
issued to the Orion Parties following the completion of the Acquisition or the
perception that such sale could occur could adversely affect prevailing market
prices for the Osisko Shares. 
The Designated Orion Shareholders will be a significant
shareholder following the completion of the Acquisition. 
Following completion of the Acquisition, the Designated Orion
Shareholders will own, directly or indirectly, approximately 19.7% of the
outstanding Osisko Shares. Although subject to certain obligations and
restrictions set out in the Shareholder Participation Agreement and the Voting
Agreement, the Designated Orion Shareholders do not have any duty to act in the
best interest of Osisko, and are not prohibited from engaging in other business
activities that may compete with those of Osisko. Notwithstanding the
Shareholder Participation Agreement and the Voting Agreement, this concentration
of ownership under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying,
preventing or accelerating a change in control of Osisko. 
In addition to having significant influence over all matters
requiring Osisko Shareholder approval, subject to the Shareholder Participation
Agreement and the Voting Agreement, the Designated Orion Shareholders may have
investment objectives which are different than existing Osisko Shareholders.

Promoters 
Canadian Malartic Corporation took the initiative of founding
and organizing Osisko and its business and operations and, as such, was
considered to be the promoter of Osisko for the purposes of applicable
securities legislation prior to the completion of the arrangement between Agnico
Eagle Mines Limited and Yamana Gold Inc. effective April 16, 2014 (the
"Agnico-Yamana Arrangement"). As of the date of this Circular, to the
best of Osisko's knowledge, Canadian Malartic Corporation does not beneficially
own, or control or direct, any voting securities of Osisko. 
André Gaumond was considered to be the promoter of Virginia due
to his involvement in Virginia and his management role. As at June 28, 2017,
André Gaumond held or exercised control over 700,613 Osisko Shares. 
Except as otherwise disclosed herein or in the AIF in
connection with the Agnico-Yamana Arrangement and the acquisition by Osisko of
the assets contributed pursuant to the contribution agreement dated June 16,
2014 between Canadian Malartic Corporation and Osisko in exchange for the
issuance of Osisko Shares by Osisko to Canadian Malartic Corporation, in
connection with royalty payments pursuant to the amended and restated net
smelter return royalty agreement dated June 16, 2014 between Osisko and Canadian
Malartic GP, and in connection with the receipt of a 3% net smelter return
royalty on the Odyssey North Project, no other assets have been acquired or are
proposed to be acquired by Osisko from either Canadian Malartic Corporation or
André Gaumond.
During the ten years before the date of this Circular, neither
Canadian Malartic Corporation nor André Gaumond has become bankrupt, made a
proposal under any legislation relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, or become
subject to or instituted any proceedings, arrangement or compromise with
creditors, or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee appointed to hold its
assets. 
Neither Canadian Malartic Corporation nor André Gaumond has
been subject to any penalties or sanctions imposed by a court relating to
provincial and territorial securities legislation or by a provincial and
territorial securities regulatory authority, has not entered into a settlement
agreement with a provincial and territorial securities regulatory authority, and
has not been imposed with any other penalties or sanctions by a court or
regulatory body that would be likely to be considered important to a reasonable
investor in making an investment decision. 
C-16 

Interests of Experts 
Luc Lessard, Eng., is named in the AIF as having reviewed and
approved certain scientific and technical information as set out under the
heading in the AIF "Material Mineral Project – The Canadian Malartic
Royalty" with respect to the Canadian Malartic Royalty. Paul Archer, M.Sc.,
Eng., is named in the AIF as having reviewed and approved certain scientific and
technical information as set out under the heading in the AIF "Material
Mineral Project - The Éléonore Royalty" with respect to the Éléonore
Royalty. 
None of the foregoing experts, nor any partner, employee or
consultant of such experts who participated in and who was in a position to
directly influence the preparation of the applicable statement, report or
valuation, has, has received or is expected to receive, registered or beneficial
interests, direct or indirect, in Osisko Shares or other property of Osisko or
any of its associates or affiliates, representing 1% or more of the outstanding
Osisko Shares. 
C-17 

SCHEDULE "D" 
INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ACQUIRED ASSETS AS OF JUNE 28,
2017 
The following information concerning the Orion Parties and the
Acquired Assets should be read in conjunction with the information concerning
the Orion Parties and the Acquired Assets appearing elsewhere in the Circular.
Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Schedule "D" –
"Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017" shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in the Circular. See "Glossary of
Terms". 
Description of Directly Held Entities of the Orion
Parties 
The Acquisition will result in MF2 Investment Company 1 LP, MF2
Investment Company I Limited, Orion Royalty Company, LLC, BCKP Limited, TitheCo,
Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited and Orion Co IV (SO) Limited becoming
wholly-owned entities of Osisko. A description of each entity including their
jurisdiction of incorporation is set out below. 
MF2 Investment Company 1 LP and MF2 Investment Company I
Limited 
MF2 Investment Company I Limited is a Bermuda company
incorporated pursuant to the Companies Act 1981 and registered on August
16, 2012. The registered address of MF2 Investment Company I Limited is c/o
Estera Services (Bermuda) Ltd., Canon's Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton,
HM12, Bermuda. MF2 Investment Company I Limited is wholly owned by Fund I. MF2
Investment Company I Limited is the general partner of MF2 Investment Company 1
LP. MF2 Investment Company 1 LP is a Bermuda exempted partnership and limited
partnership formed on August 15, 2012 pursuant to the Bermuda Exempted
Partnership Act, 1992 and the Bermuda Limited Partnership Act, 1883.
The registered address of MF2 Investment Company 1 LP is c/o Estera Services
(Bermuda) Ltd., Canon's Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM12, Bermuda. The
sole limited partner of MF2 Investment Company 1 LP is Fund I. MF2 Investment
Company 1 LP is the holder of one royalty on an exploration stage property,
which forms part of the Acquired Assets. 
Orion Royalty Company, LLC 
Orion Royalty Company, LLC is a Delaware limited liability
company formed on October 16, 2013 pursuant to the Delaware Limited Liability
Company Act. The registered office of Orion Royalty Company, LLC is 2711
Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, 19808. The registered agent
of Orion Royalty Company, LLC in the State of Delaware is Corporation Service
Company. The sole managing member of Orion Royalty Company, LLC is Fund
I, pursuant to an operating agreement dated as of October 16, 2013. Orion
Royalty Company, LLC is the holder of the following royalties, which form part
of the Acquired Assets: 11 royalties on properties in the exploration stage; one
royalty on a property in development; and three royalties on properties in
production. See "Royalties, Streams and Offtakes on Mineral Properties in
Production". 
BCKP Limited 
BCKP Limited is a Cayman Islands exempted company incorporated
pursuant to the Companies Law (2011 Revision) of the Cayman Islands on
March 30, 2012. The registered office of BCKP Limited is c/o Maples Corporate
Services Limited, PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104. The
registered agent of BCKP Limited is Maples Corporate Services Limited. BCKP
Limited is wholly owned by Fund I. BCKP Limited is the holder of the following
royalties, which form part of the Acquired Assets: ten royalties on exploration
stage properties and three royalties on development stage properties. 
BCKP Limited is the sole shareholder of Vaaldiam Mining Inc.
and holds all the issued and outstanding shares in the capital of Vaaldiam
Mining Inc. Vaaldiam Mining Inc. is the holder of the following royalties, which
form part of the Acquired Assets: two royalties on exploration stage properties;
four royalties on development stage properties and three royalties on production
stage properties. Vaaldiam Mining Inc. is also the sole shareholder of Mining
Royalties Mexico S.A. de C.V. which holds the following royalties, which form
part of the Acquired Assets: six royalties on exploration stage properties and
one royalty on a development stage property. See "Royalties, Streams and
Offtakes on Mineral Properties in Production". 
D-1 

BCKP Limited is also the sole shareholder of MF2, LLC. MF2, LLC
is the holder of the following royalties, which form part of the Acquired
Assets: two royalties on exploration stage properties and four royalties on
development stage properties. 
Orion TitheCo Limited 
TitheCo is a Bermuda company incorporated pursuant to the
Companies Act 1981 and registered on March 27, 2014. The registered address
of TitheCo is c/o Estera Services (Bermuda) Ltd., Canon's Court, 22 Victoria
Street, Hamilton, HM12, Bermuda and its registered agent is Estera Services
(Bermuda) Ltd. The shareholders of TitheCo are Fund I, which holds one voting
share and 475 non-voting shares, and Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP
which holds one voting share and 515 non-voting shares in the capital of
TitheCo. TitheCo holds the following Acquired Assets: the Back Forty stream, the
Mantos stream, the Mantoverde gold stream right of first refusal, the Matilda
offtake, the Yenipazar offtake and the San Ramon offtake. TitheCo also holds one
royalty on a development stage property, which forms part of the Acquired
Assets. 
TitheCo holds a 99.99% equity interest in Nanjo Royalties, S.
de R.L. de C.V. with Orion Fund JV Limited owning the remaining equity interest
in Nanjo Royalties, S. de R.L. de C.V. Nanjo Royalties, S. de R.L. de C.V. is
the holder of one royalty on a development stage property, which forms part of
the Acquired Assets. 
TitheCo holds a 78.3% interest in Orion Stream II with Orion
Co-Investments II LP owning the remaining 21.7% . Orion Stream II holds the
Brucejack gold offtake and the Brucejack gold and silver stream, which form part
of the Acquired Assets. 
TitheCo also holds a 97.9% interest in Orion Co IV (as defined
below) with Orion Co-Investments IV LP holding the remaining 2.1% . Orion Co IV
holds the Amulsar offtake and Amulsar stream, which form part of the Acquired
Assets. 
Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited 
Orion Stream II is a Bermuda company incorporated pursuant to
the Companies Act 1981 and registered on September 2, 2012. The registered
address of Orion Stream II is c/o Estera Services (Bermuda) Ltd., Canon's Court,
22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM12, Bermuda. Orion Stream II holds the Brucejack
gold offtake and the Brucejack gold and silver stream, which form part of the
Acquired Assets. 
Orion Co IV (SO) Limited 
Orion Co IV is a Bermuda company incorporated pursuant to
the Companies Act 1981 and registered on October 16, 2015. The registered
address of Orion Co IV is c/o Estera Services (Bermuda) Ltd., Canon's Court, 22
Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM12, Bermuda. Orion Co IV holds the Amulsar offtake
and Amulsar stream, which form part of the Acquired Assets. 
Acquired Material Properties 
The following are summaries of information from technical
reports on certain properties relating to the Acquired Assets, specifically, the
Acquired Material Properties. Osisko has determined the Acquired Material
Properties will be material mineral properties of the Resulting Company upon
completion of the Acquisition. The information presented in this Schedule "D"
– "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017"
about the Acquired Material Properties is extracted or derived from public
disclosures made pursuant to Canadian securities law, including technical
reports prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 (collectively, the "Third Party
Technical Reports"). 
D-2 

The technical report on the Brucejack Gold Mine was prepared
for Pretium Resources on June 19, 2014. The technical report on the Renard
Diamond Mine was prepared for Stornoway on March 30, 2016, with an effective
date of December 31, 2015. The technical report on the Mantos Blancos Copper
Mine was prepared for TitheCo with an effective date of June 23, 2017. In each
case, the respective technical report is the most recent technical report
available with respect to the Orion Material Property. 
Pretium Resources and Stornoway are both reporting issuers in
Canada that have identified the sources of the scientific and technical
information in their technical reports and are required to publicly disclose all
material scientific and technical information with respect to the Brucejack Gold
Mine and the Renard Diamond Mine, respectively, and where material information
with respect to a material property is disclosed, that information must be
supported by a technical report. Pursuant to NI 43-101, the Orion Parties are
not required to file technical reports in connection with their interests in the
Renard Diamond Mine and the Brucejack Gold Mine and may rely on technical
reports prepared by Stornoway and Pretium Resources. See "Cautionary
Statement Regarding Third-Party Information". 
The Third Party Technical Reports are subject to certain
assumptions, qualifications and procedures described therein. Reference should
be made to the full text of the Third Party Technical Reports, which have been
filed with Canadian securities regulatory authorities pursuant to NI 43-101 and
are available for review on SEDAR under the applicable reporting issuer's issuer
profile at www.sedar.com. The Third Party Technical Reports are not and
shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference. 
The form of the disclosure with respect to the Acquired
Material Properties below is prescribed by securities legislation. The
information with respect to the Renard Diamond Mine and the Brucejack Gold Mine
is derived from disclosure prepared by the respective owners and operators of
those properties, and may not include all information a reader deems relevant
with respect to the Acquired Material Properties. The Third Party Technical
Reports, and consequently the disclosure below, are prepared as of a certain
point in time, and neither Osisko nor the Orion Parties are in a position to
determine whether any information with respect to the Acquired Material
Properties that may be material to a reader subsequent to the date of the Third
Party Technical Reports exists. Therefore in addition to the Third Party
Technical Reports, readers should review public disclosures available on SEDAR
made by Stornoway or Pretium Resources subsequent to the respective dates of the
Third Party Technical Reports under their respective issuer profiles at
www.sedar.com. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Third-Party
Information". 
Technical Information 
The technical information contained in this Schedule "D" –
"Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017" under
the headings "Renard Diamond Mine", "Brucejack Gold Mine",
"Mantos Blancos Copper Mine", "Description of Material Assets" and
"Description of Certain Other Assets Comprising the Acquired Assets" has
been reviewed and approved by Luc Lessard, Eng., Senior Vice President,
Technical Services of Osisko, who is a "qualified person" for the purpose of NI
43-101. 
Renard Diamond Mine 
History and Technical Information 
The Renard Diamond Mine, part of the Foxtrot Property, is 100%
owned and operated by SDCI, a wholly owned subsidiary of Stornoway. 
Technical information described below relating to the Foxtrot
Property is derived from the 2016 Technical Report. The qualified persons named
as authors of the 2016 Technical Report are: Mr. Patrick Godin Ing. (Québec),
Stornoway's Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Robin Hopkins, P.Geol. (NT/NU),
Stornoway's Vice President, Exploration, and Mr Paul Bedell, P.Eng. of Golder
Associates Ltd, each of whom is a "qualified person" (within the meaning of NI
43-101). The 2016 Technical Report, which constitutes the current technical
report for the Renard Diamond Mine, was filed on SEDAR on March 30, 2016 and is
available at www.sedar.com. References to the "project" or
"property" in this section entitled "Acquired Material Properties –
Renard Diamond Mine" refer to the Renard Diamond Mine as defined in the 2016
Technical Report. 
D-3 

Summary and Project Status 
The Renard Diamond Mine is 100% owned and operated by SDCI. The
project is subject to a 2% direct royalty interest on diamonds, held by Diaquem.
In addition, on July 8, 2014, the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward
Sale of Diamonds was entered into by FCDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of SDCI,
with Orion Stream I and/or the Renard Buyers. The Renard Streaming Agreement for
the Forward Sale of Diamonds was amended on March 31, 2015. For a summary of the
material terms of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of
Diamonds, see "Description of Material Assets – The Renard Stream".
Copies of the Renard Stream Agreement and the amendment are available on SEDAR
under Stornoway's issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. A summary of
the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds is disclosed in
the annual information form of Stornoway dated February 23, 2017. 
The project site is located in the James Bay region, central
Québec, Canada, approximately 70 km north of the Otish Mountains and some 360 km
north-northeast from the mining town of Chibougamau. The site is located at
longitude 72°11' West and latitude 52°49' North; and benefits from an all
year-round land and air access. Operations can be conducted year-round. 
The execution plan proposes concepts and practices that are
consistent with those in the Canadian diamond mining industry. The project
design contemplates open pit mining of the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 65
kimberlite pipes, followed by underground mining of the Renard 2, Renard 3 and
Renard 4 kimberlite pipes by BHS. Ore will be processed initially at the process
plant nameplate capacity of 2.16 Million tonnes per annum, and subsequently
expanded to 2.5 Million tonnes per annum, with three stages of crushing and a
concentration process in two different stages, namely an LDR process and a DMS.
Each of the LDR and DMS will produce a concentrate that will be treated in a
secure diamond recovery facility using diamond differentiation techniques based
on magnetic, X-ray, laser Raman and ultra-violet technologies, with hand-
sorting as the final de-falsing step to produce a nominally 98% diamond by
weight product at final sorting. The non-diamond product generated by each of
the LDR and DMS will be further sized, and the coarser size fraction (+6mm) will
be recirculated through the HPGR (as defined herein) to release locked diamonds.
Process plant design and equipment selections were based on bulk sample plant
operational data, test work, experience from other operations and proven
technology to minimize diamond breakage. 
Supporting infrastructure includes an effluent treatment plant,
potable water treatment plant, a power plant (comprised of seven natural gas
generators of 2,050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of 1,800 KW
each), LNG and diesel tank farms, LNG regasification plant, 370 bed
accommodation complex, a six-bay maintenance facility, mine offices, an
explosive storage and handling area, a 1,494 metre gravel airstrip and
telecommunication systems. 
Processed kimberlite will be disposed of through a dry stack
facility currently under construction and the management of surface runoff water
is facilitated through a system of peripheral drainage ditches designed to
direct runoff water to an excavated catch basin for treatment, if required,
before release to the environment. Suspended solids are determined to be the
main concern for water treatment. Storage capacity of the catch basin
accommodates spring runoff and a 100 year return storm event. Mine operations
incorporate a program of progressive reclamation that minimizes costs and allows
timely monitoring of performance. Waste rock generated by mining will be
reintroduced to the underground as backfill. 
Cost estimates were established from first principles where
appropriate, or from benchmarking against comparable projects, or derived from
actual costs incurred during the first year of the project's mining operations.
Appropriate contingencies and mitigation allowances have been applied, and risk
management and peer reviews were held during the construction and development
process. 
The 2016 Technical Report describes a Mineral Reserve (as such
term is defined in NI 43-101) estimate of 22.3 million carats (33.4 million
tonnes at an average grade of 67 cpht), based on mining, processing and
infrastructure already in place or on designs as detailed, and incorporating
current geological and diamond revenue data. Inferred Resources are considered
too geologically speculative to have mining and economic considerations applied
to them and to be categorized as Mineral Reserves and are not included in the
2016 Technical Report. 
D-4 

Stornoway completed a financial analysis for the Renard Diamond
Mine, reflected in the 2016 Technical Report. For the purposes of the 2016
Technical Report financial model, net-present valuations are presented on net
cash flow after operating costs, marketing costs, net of all royalties, costs
incurred under the Mecheshoo Agreement, with the effective revenue impairment
associated with the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds,
and on an unlevered basis. After-Tax NPV (7%) is estimated at $974 million, and
$1,349 million on a pre-tax basis, in real dollar terms. Given the advanced
nature of project construction, estimates of internal rate of return and payback
period are not considered meaningful. After-tax NPV reflect the deduction of
federal and Québec income taxes and applicable mining duties. 
All elements of the project development plan, including the
remaining required infrastructure, mine design, process plant design, waste
disposal infrastructure and cost estimation, represent the current estimate for
life of mine operations. The resulting information therefore met all of the
applicable requirements for conversion of Indicated Mineral Resources to a
Probable Mineral Reserve estimate (as such terms are defined in NI 43-101). The
Probable Mineral Reserve estimate was determined in accordance with CIM
Definition Standards classification. Considering the risks inherent in all
kimberlite deposits, such as sampling for geological continuity, diamond grade
and diamond revenue determination, the Indicated portion of the Mineral
Resources is considered suitable for the estimate of Probable Reserve. The
authors of the 2016 Technical Report recommend to perform additional work in
order to reduce the uncertainties in the geomechanical and design analysis and
to continually review these analysis to ensure they remain valid over time. They
also recommend to test processed kimberlite material post production to confirm
geochemical classification. There is no certainty that the 2016 Technical Report
will be realized. 
Property Description and Location 
The Renard Diamond Mine is part of the Foxtrot Property
situated in the Monts Otish (Otish Mountains) region of the province of Québec,
Canada, 820 km north of the city of Montreal and 360 km north-northeast of the
mining town of Chibougamau. The principal access point for employees,
contractors and visitors to the project is via the Renard airport, specifically
built for the use of the Renard Diamond Mine and located along the Renard
Diamond Mine access road 10 km away from the Renard Diamond Mine gate, with
goods and services delivered to site by road on the all-weather Renard Mine
Road/Route 167 Extension, the construction of which was completed by Stornoway
in 2014. The closest settlement is Témiscamie, on the shore of Lac Albanel. The
regional centre of Chibougamau acts as staging posts for the trans-shipment of
materials and personnel. Power is currently provided to the construction site
via diesel generators, however a power plant (comprised of seven natural gas
generators of 2050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of 1800 KW each)
was constructed on the Renard Diamond Mine site to provide for future power
requirements of the mine. Daily deliveries of LNG by tanker truck from Montreal
are made possible by the all-season Renard Mine Road/Route 167 Extension to the
Project. On site LNG storage capacity is rated at 10 days of supply at full
project production. 
The claims comprising the Foxtrot Property are registered in
the name of SDCI as a 100% interest and at the effective date of the 2016
Technical Report, all claims were reported to be in good standing. 
The claim holder has the exclusive right to search for all
mineral substances in the public domain, with the exception of petroleum,
natural gas, brine and loose surface materials. Claims are valid for a two-year
period and can be renewed every two (2) years. Renewal fees are fixed by
regulation. In order to maintain tenure, exploration work equivalent in amounts
also determined by regulation are required depending on the number of terms of
renewal a claim has undergone. Table 1.1 details the work requirements per
renewal period north of the 52 parallel as set by regulation at the time of the
2016 Technical Report. When the work carried out is insufficient, or if work was
not carried out, the titleholder may pay an amount equivalent to the required
amount in lieu of work. Alternatively, work expenditures that are in excess of
the amount required for the term on a claim can be transferred to other
contiguous claims that are within 4.5 km of its radius or can be credited
towards future renewals. 
D-5 

Table 1.1: Work Requirement per Renewal Period 

 
 Term 
 Surface area of claim 
 
 Less than 25 ha 
 25 to 45 ha 
 More than 45 ha 
 
 1 
 $48 
 $120 
 $135 
 
 2 
 $160 
 $400 
 $450 
 
 3 
 $320 
 $800 
 $900 
 
 4 
 $480 
 $1,200 
 $1,350 
 
 5 
 $640 
 $1,600 
 $1,800 
 
 6 
 $750 
 $1,800 
 $1,800 
 
 7 or more 
 $1,000 
 $2,500 
 $2,500 

Mining Lease BM 1021 was granted to SDCI on October 16, 2012,
is valid for a period of 20 years (with three 10-year renewal periods and for
5-year renewal periods thereafter), and, at the time of the 2016 Technical
Report, was subject to annual payments set at $46.50/ha. This mining lease
encompasses the mine site and surface operations (excluding the processed
kimberlite containment area). 
The surface lease number 1303 10 000 encompassing the processed
kimberlite containment area was also granted on October 16, 2012, and at the
time of the 2016 Technical Report had yearly renewal fees at $94/ha. A number of
additional surface leases were granted to SDCI to cover various requirements of
the Renard Diamond Mine. 
SDCI holds a 100% interest in the poperty, subject to a 2%
direct gross revenue royalty on future life of mine diamond production in favour
of DIAQUEM Inc. 
Environment 
The Renard Diamond Mine is located in a region with a subarctic
climate. Temperatures range from summer maximums of +35°C to winter minimums of
-45°C. Abundant precipitation falls in the form of rain and snow. Total annual
precipitation averages around 80–100 cm. Operations can be conducted year-round.

The James Bay region is divided into four distinct bioclimatic
domains, in the following succession from south to north: the balsam fir-white
birch domain; the spruce-moss domain; the spruce-lichen domain; and the forest
tundra domain. The Renard Diamond Mine study area is located in the
spruce-lichen domain. In this domain, black spruce punctuates the carpet of
lichen, while jack pine and balsam fir reach the northern limit of their
distribution range. 
Within the Renard Diamond Mine study area, wetlands represent
only 3% of the plant communities. They consist of small ombrotrophic bogs,
swamps and patterned fens that cover at the most a few hectares each. The
presence of 14 fish species has been confirmed within the project study area.
Among these, five species are of interest for sport fishing: northern pike, lake
white fish, brook trout, lake trout and burbot. White sucker, pearl dace and
brook trout are the most abundant species in the area. 
Topographic relief within the Foxtrot Property consists of
steep-sided hills with rounded tops separated by muskeg-covered valleys.
Elevations range between 450 masl and 550 masl. Lakes, ponds and small rivers
are common. 
The Renard Diamond Mine study area is located on Trapline M-11,
which covers the entire Foxtrot Property. Subsistence hunting is practiced by
Crees in this area and targets mainly moose and waterfowl. 
D-6 

Government and Social License 
The Foxtrot Property is located within the region of Northern
Québec governed by the JBNQA, a land claims agreement executed by the government
of Québec, the government of Canada, the Grand Council of the Cree of Québec
(Eeyou Istchee) and the Northern Québec Inuit Association, among others. This
agreement defines the social and environmental protection regimes for the
regions of James Bay and Nunavik. The JBNQA provides for three categories of
land, Categories I to III, each with specifically defined rights. Category III
lands are public lands where Cree communities have certain rights, particularly
in regard to trapping, hunting, fishing and the development of outfitter
operations. Members of the Cree Nation of Mistissini undertake hunting, fishing
and trapping activities within the Foxtrot Property, with the Renard Kimberlite
Pipes occurring in an area known to them as "yuus-kanchiisu-saakahiikan" (mild
rock Ptarmigan Lake). More specifically, the Renard Kimberlite Pipes lie within
the Cree Nation of Mistissini trapline area designated as M-11. 
In February 2002, Québec and the Cree Nation signed a fifty
year political and economic agreement known as La Paix des Braves. The
Grand Council of the Cree of Québec (Eeyou Istchee) is the political body that
represents approximately 14,500 Crees of Eastern James Bay and Southern Hudson
Bay in Northern Québec. The Grand Council of the Cree of Québec (Eeyou Istchee)
has twenty members: a Grand Chief and Deputy-Grand Chief elected at large, the
chiefs elected by each of the nine Cree communities of the territory, and one
other representative from each community. The Cree Nation of Mistissini is the
largest Cree community with 3,500 residents. 
On July 24, 2012, the Crees of Eeyou Istchee and the
Gouvernement du Québec signed the Agreement on Governance in the Eeyou
Istchee James Bay Territory. This agreement provides for the James Bay
Regional Government replacing the Municipalité de Baie-James. The James Bay
Regional Government is responsible for the management of Category III lands and
exercises the same jurisdictions, functions, and authority on Category III lands
in the Eeyou Istchee James Bay Territory as those formerly attributed to the
Municipalité de Baie-James. The James Bay Regional Government is directed by a
Council composed of 11 Cree representatives (the Grand Chief of the Cree Nation
Government along with ten other designates from elected members of the Council
of the Cree Nation Government), 11 Jamésien representatives (designated from
among elected members of the councils of the enclave municipalities and the
non-Crees residing within the James Bay Regional Government's territory), and
one non-voting representative of the Québec government. Authorizations and
permits required for the development of all industrial projects are provided by
the James Bay Regional Government. 
Since the early stages of the Renard Diamond Mine, Stornoway
has developed and maintained significant communications and relations with
stakeholders including: the Cree Nation of Mistissini, the Grand Council of the
Crees (Eeyou Istchee), tallymen of Trapline M11 and the towns of Chibougamau,
Chapais and the Municipality of James Bay. Public meetings, field visits,
meetings with chiefs or mayors, environmental exchange group meetings, and
business meetings with contractors and suppliers are amongst the many activities
held by Stornoway on a regular basis. Stornoway has opened offices in Mistissini
and Chibougamau to facilitate communications with these parties. 
In March 2012, Stornoway completed negotiations with the Cree
Nation of Mistissini, the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the
Cree Regional Authority on the Mecheshoo Agreeement. The Mecheshoo Agreement is
a binding agreement that will govern the long-term working relationship between
Stornoway and the Cree parties during all phases of the Renard Diamond Mine. It
provides for training, employment and business opportunities for the Crees
during project construction, operation and closure, and sets out the principles
of social, cultural and environmental respect under which the project will be
managed. The Mecheshoo Agreement includes a mechanism by which the Cree parties
will benefit financially from the success of the project on a long term basis,
consistent with the mining industry's best practices for engagement with First
Nations communities. 
In July 2012, Stornoway executed the Declaration of Partnership
with the communities of Chibougamau and Chapais in the James Bay Region of
Québec. The Declaration of Partnership is a statement of cooperation between the
partners for the responsible development of the Renard Diamond Mine based on the
principles of environmental protection, social responsibility and economic
viability. The Declaration of Partnership includes provisions to set up a Renard
Liaison Committee that will address issues of mutual interest such as
communication, employment, and the economic diversification of local
communities. In particular, the committee will oversee initiatives to attract
and retain new residents to the towns of Chibougamau and Chapais. 
D-7 

Permitting 
The Renard Diamond Mine was subject to the provincial and
federal environmental and social assessment and review process under the
JBNQA, the EQA and the CEAA. On December 28, 2011, Stornoway filed an
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment meeting the requirements of the
provincial and federal Environmental and Social Impact Assessment guidelines and
following that submission, public hearings on the project were held by the
federal Canadian government and Québec government in June and August 2012,
respectively. 
On December 4, 2012, Stornoway received the global Certificate
of Authorization for the Renard Diamond Mine from the Québec Ministère du
Développement durable, de l'Environnement et de la Lutte contre les changements
climatiques, which certificate was periodically amended since then as the
engineering and development plans of the Renard Diamond Mine refined. The
Certificate of Authorization represents the principal regulatory approval that
was required to commence mine construction. On July 12, 2013, Stornoway received
a positive Environmental Assessment Decision for the Renard Diamond Mine from
the CEAA. 
Under the Québec Mining Act, the holder of mining rights has
the responsibility to rehabilitate and restore the lands on which exploration
and/or development activities have been carried out. This work must be completed
in accordance with a restoration plan pre-approved by the MERN. In December
2012, Stornoway received approval from the MERN of the Closure Plan. Under the
Québec Mining Act, a financial guarantee must be submitted to the MERN to
guarantee 100% of the rehabilitation costs of a mining project, in accordance
with a payment schedule prescribed by applicable regulation. On August 29, 2014,
Stornoway arranged for a surety bond of up to $15.2 million to provide a
financial guarantee to the MERN with respect to the Closure Plan. The obligation
to pay the first tranche of $7.6 million was met in August 2014; the second
installment of $3.8 million was met in August 2015 and the third and last
installment in August 2016. 
Since the beginning of the construction phase of the Renard
Diamond Mine in July 2014, various additional operating permits have been sought
for site specific activities under the authority of the overall global
authorizations. 
Project Geology 
The project area is located on the south-eastern portion of the
Superior Structural Province, bordered by Proterozoic rocks of the Labrador
Trough in the east and the Grenville Province in the south. This portion of the
Superior Craton is sometimes referred to as the "Ungava Craton". Proterozoic
rocks of the Labrador Fold Belt in the east, the Cape Smith Fold Belt in the
north and the Grenville Province in the south surround the project area.
Northern portions of the Project area consist of north-northwest trending,
plutonic and gneissic terranes. Based on metamorphic grade, mineralogy,
lithology and aeromagnetic observations, the terranes appear to vary in width
from 70 km to 150 km. 
The Foxtrot Property is situated between the La Grande
greenstone (volcanic) belt to the north and the Eastmain greenstone (volcanic)
belt to the south. Granite-gneiss and retrograde granulite gneiss are the
predominant lithologies, with lesser amounts of granite and granodiorite.
Contained within the gneiss are relict metasedimentary and metavolcanic rock
assemblages along with associated mafic and ultramafic intrusive rocks. The
Otish Mountain and Mistassini groups of Proterozoic, clastic, metasedimentary
rocks overlie the Archean lithologies, marginal to the Grenville Province. Mafic
and ultramafic intrusive rocks of variable affinities are more common in the
southeast than in the southwest. 
Granite–gneiss and retrograde granulite gneisses of sedimentary
origin are the predominant lithologies in the property area; however, lesser
granite and granodiorite may also be present. The gneisses may contain relict
metasedimentary and metavolcanic rock assemblages, as well as associated mafic
and ultramafic intrusive rocks. Minor linear belts of supracrustal metavolcanic
rocks occur throughout the area, generally trending east-west or west-northwest.
Northwest-trending, Proterozoic Mistassini Swarm diabase and gabbro dykes up to
30 m wide cross-cut all lithologies. Isolated outliers of Proterozoic clastic
metasedimentary rocks are present in the area. 
D-8 

Metamorphic grade within the Foxtrot area is primarily
amphibolite facies with local granulite facies being reported near Lac Minto.
Higher-grade lithologies in the north are interpreted as supracrustal relicts
dating to 3.1 Ga. Granite and granite gneiss are dated at 2.7 Ga and local
felsic and intermediate intrusive rocks are dated at 2.5 Ga. 
There are five known episodes of kimberlitic volcanism in
Québec; from south to north, the kimberlite fields are Témiscamingue,
Desmaraisville, Otish, Wemindji and Torngat. The Renard Cluster is considered to
be part of the 550 to 641 Ma Otish kimberlitic volcanic event. 
Quaternary glacial cover in the area was controlled by the New
Québec Ice Divide. From the divide, ice flowed north and northeast toward Ungava
Bay and west to southwest toward Hudson Bay. Glacial lineaments are well
developed and widespread. Glacial overburden within the Foxtrot Property can be
up to 34 m thick, but is on average 10 m thick in the area of the Renard
Cluster. Glacial deposits consist of till, eskers, moraine and post-glacial
sediments, and their orientation reflects ice transport from the north-
northeast. 
Exploration 
All exploration has been carried out by Stornoway and its
predecessor companies. 
Since the inception of the Foxtrot Project, approximately
12,000 heavy mineral samples have been collected over a 400,000 km2
area of which some 8,140 lie within the current land holdings. Since 2000,
approximately 274 ground magnetic surveys (2,486 line kilometres), 204 ground
electromagnetic surveys (328 line kilometres) and 37,450 line kilometres of
airborne geophysical surveys have been completed on the Foxtrot Property. 
Structural mapping was undertaken in 2004 and 2006 to identify
structural controls that could help locate more kimberlitic intrusions or dykes.
The program results proved to be inconclusive. Geological mapping in October
2010 was to identify large-scale feature of interest interpreted from
geophysical data and aerial photographs. Overburden in targeted areas was
cleared to expose the bedrock for mapping. The program was successful in
highlighting two large faults and two smaller ones within the proposed mine
site. 
Sampling trenches excavated on Renard 4, Renard 65, Lynx,
Hibou, and the North Anomaly were mapped in detail prior to sampling. Mapping
was undertaken with grid control and reference points were surveyed by a
registered surveyor. 
During the underground bulk sampling program at Renard 2 and
Renard 3, geological mapping was completed on all workings. The face was mapped
after each round during the development of the ramp and drifts and, after the
underground excavation was completed, the ramp and drift walls were mapped in
the kimberlites. 
Mineralization 
There are two types of diamond deposits: primary and secondary.
Primary deposits are those in which the diamonds remain inside the original host
rock (usually kimberlite) that conveyed them to the surface. Secondary deposits
are formed when the diamonds are eroded from the host rock and concentrated by
the action of water into alluvial deposits (in rivers) or marine deposits (in
beaches). The Renard kimberlites are primary deposits emplaced into granitic and
gneissic host rocks. Extensive sampling programs conducted between 2001 and 2014
have demonstrated that the kimberlites contain diamonds of potential economic
interest. 
As of the date of the 2016 Technical Report, nine kimberlite
pipes have been identified over a 2 km2 area in the Renard Cluster
(Renard 1 to Renard 10; with Renard 5 and Renard 6 forming one body, referred to
as Renard 65). The kimberlite pipes are typically spaced between 50 m and 500 m
from each other. Geophysical data and drill information from delineation and
bulk sampling programs indicate that, in general, most of the Renard kimberlites
are irregular and elliptical in plan view. Surface areas of the kimberlite
portion of the pipes range from 0.1 ha to 2.0 ha. The 2015 Mineral Resource
Estimate describes Indicated/Inferred resources for the Renard 2, Renard 3,
Renard 4, Renard 9 and Renard 65 pipes. The Renard 1, Renard 7 and Renard 10
pipes may have economic potential and are classified as TFFE. Two laterally
extensive kimberlite dyke systems, known as the Lynx and Hibou dykes, have been
identified to the west and northwest of the pipe cluster, respectively. Portions
of both dykes are included in the mineral resource estimation. Additional dyke-like kimberlites
have been discovered elsewhere on the property. These are not included in the
Mineral Resource estimation but may warrant additional work at a later date.
D-9 

The Renard kimberlite pipes comprise diatreme-zone to root-zone
kimberlites, with overall similar internal geologies. These pipes can be
classified as "typical" South-African-style kimberlites, and contain a variety
of phases that are distinguishable from one another by differing macroscopic and
microscopic properties as well as diamond grades. In most pipes, with the
exception of Renard 3 and Renard 10, the dominant phase is a massive
volcaniclastic kimberlite that can be classified as tuffacitic kimberlite
breccia. In general, these tuffasitic kimberlite breccias are extensively
altered and have a massive texture. They consist of varying amounts of olivine,
juvenile clasts and country rock xenoliths that are poorly sorted, typically
loosely packed and less commonly clast supported, all set within a highly
altered interclast matrix. In many pipes an additional pipe-filling phase is
present that is typically a more coherent or transitional kimberlite
characterized by lower country rock xenolith content and higher olivine content
set within a crystalline to semi-crystalline groundmass. In all bodies,
hypabyssal kimberlite is present as both dykes and irregularly shaped intrusions
that are found within each pipe infilling phase, between contacts of phases and
along pipe margins. These are typically considered later stage intrusions. The
hypabyssal kimberlite intrusions can vary in thickness from a few centimetres to
several metres and, in the case of the Lynx and Hibou dyke system, for example,
can be laterally extensive. 
The Renard pipe-like bodies are all associated with extensive
cracked country rock created during the emplacement event and, with the
exception of Renard 3 and Renard 8, have a significant marginal CRB. The cracked
country rock consists of both broken and solid country rock with small amounts
of HK dykes and veins throughout, and minor zones containing kimberlite-derived
constituents. The CRB typically lies between the main kimberlite units and the
cracked country rock, and is characterized by dominantly broken and pulverized
clast-supported country rock, with an overall dilution of 95% or greater. CRB
contains up to 5% of kimberlitic components, present as olivine, rare altered
magmaclasts and very rare garnet xenocrysts in the breccia matrix. The CRB
contains a significant amount of additional diamond-bearing kimberlitic
material, in the form of late-stage, cross-cutting HK dykes, and helps to define
the pipe shape. 
Previous U-Pb dating of groundmass perovskite in HK dykes
within Renard 1 suggested an emplacement age of 631.6 +/- 3.5 Ma. Recent data
obtained for the main rock-types in Renard 2 and Renard 3 using the same method
suggest an emplacement age of 640.5 +/- 2.8 Ma. 
Drilling 
All drilling has been carried out under the control of
Stornoway and predecessor company Ashton Mining Canada Inc. A total of 900 drill
holes (132,719 m) has been drilled on the property since 2001, comprising 36 RC
holes (6,151 m) and 631 exploration core holes (120,994 m), 35 geomechanical
holes (3,471 m), 133 geotechnical holes (1,219 m) and 64 hydrogeological holes
(884 m). Total surface drilling on a year-to-year basis for exploration work is
summarized in Table 1.2. Total drilling for geomechanical, geotechnical and
hydrological purposes is summarized in Table 1.3. During 2007, and as part of
the underground bulk sample work, 22 holes were drilled from underground on
Renard 2 (1,508 m) and 21 holes from underground on Renard 3 (874 m). These 43
holes are included in the totals above, and in Table 1.2. 
Vertical and angled holes were drilled through the kimberlite
bodies, from which three dimensional geological models were constructed for
resource estimation. Drilling intersections are therefore not related to true
thickness of mineralization. 
Between 2001 and 2002, drilling was completed for early-stage,
exploration-focused programs for all the bodies except for Renard 9 and Renard
10, which were discovered in 2003 and 2005, respectively. From 2003, drilling
was used primarily to support advanced-stage project evaluation and deposit
delineation by providing bulk and mini-bulk samples. Target exploration drilling
was undertaken between 2001 and 2010. Drilling in 2011 and 2012 was focussed on
collecting data to support the proposed mine plan and infrastructure design, and
drilling in 2014 concentrated on the Renard 2 kimberlite. 
D-10 

Table 1.2: Summary of Exploration Drill Programs 

 
 Program by 
 Year 
 Number of 
 Core
 Holes 
 Number of
 
 Extended Holes 
 Drilled Metres
 
 (core) 
 Number of RC
 
 Holes 
 Drilled Metres
 
 (RC) 
 
 
 2001 
 6

 0

 554
 
 0

 0
 
 
 2002 
 33
 
 0

 4,688 
 0

 0
 
 
 2003 
 71
 
 0

 12,642 
 0

 0
 
 
 2004 
 104
 
 0

 17,699 
 23
 
 4,157 
 
 2005 
 137
 
 3

 25,914 
 0

 0
 
 
 2006 
 90
 
 1

 11,343 
 5

 805
 
 
 2007 
 95
 
 3

 12,243 
 8

 1,189 
 
 2008 
 16
 
 0

 2,160 
 0

 0
 
 
 2009 
 29
 
 5

 16,506 
 0

 0
 
 
 2010 
 12
 
 2

 5,209 
 0

 0
 
 
 2014 
 38
 
 0

 12,036 
 0

 0
 
 
 Total 
 631 
 14 
 120,994 
 36 
 6,151 
Of the exploration drill holes listed above, 497 holes
totalling 101,078 m were used in the 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate (totals
therefore exclude work on Renard 1, Renard 7, Renard 8 and Renard 10 as they do
not contain 'mineral resources' as defined by NI 43-101 and related documents).

Table 1.3: Summary of Geomechanical, Geotechnical and
Hydrogeological Drill Programs 

 
 
 Year 
 
 Purpose 
 Number of
 Drill 
 Holes 
 
 Drilled
 Metres 
 
 
 
 2006 
 Hydrogeological 
 8

 123
 
 
 2010 
 Geomechanical 
 26
 
 2,445 
 
 2010 
 Hydrogeological 
 12
 
 106
 
 
 2010 
 Geotechnical 
 39
 
 203
 
 
 2011 
 Geotechnical 
 23
 
 499
 
 
 2012 
 Geomechanical 
 7

 696
 
 
 2012 
 Geotechnical 
 49
 
 423
 
 
 2012 
 Hydrogeological 
 26
 
 413
 
 
 2014 
 Geotechnical 
 22
 
 94
 
 
 2014 
 Hydrogeological 
 18
 
 242
 
 
 2015 
 Geomechanical 
 2

 330
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 232 
 5,574 
All exploratory borehole locations were verified by hand-held
GPS units with no differential correction. Exploration drill hole azimuths and
inclinations are set using a compass and protractor, respectively. Final
exploration borehole inclinations are surveyed using an "acid test" system.
Delineation and mini-bulk hole collar locations are determined by a registered surveyor using GPS equipment with
sub-centimetre accuracy. The downhole track of core holes drilled at Renard 2,
Renard 3, Renard 4, Renard 65, Renard 7, Renard 8, Renard 9, and Renard 10 were
surveyed with borehole survey instruments to determine the azimuths and
inclinations. All the core holes drilled on the property are surveyed for
magnetic susceptibility. 
D-11 

While drilling for delineation or mini-bulk samples, detailed
geotechnical observations have been recorded from exploration drill core. All
holes are logged for geotechnical parameters such as total core recovery, rock
quality designation, intact rock strength, weathering/alteration, joint
orientation, joint condition rating and fracture frequency in order to obtain
rock mass quality values. Beginning in 2009, holes have been drilled to produce
oriented core for the purpose of obtaining orientation data from the core.
Azimuth (Alpha) and inclination (Beta) measurements for all fractures in the
oriented drill core were recorded to aid in the development of a geotechnical
model of the project site. 
Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security 
Three basic levels of progressively larger diamond sampling
procedures are summarized below (caustic fusion sampling, mini-bulk sampling and
bulk sampling), followed by descriptions of the comparable core, reverse
circulation, trenching and underground sample programs. Determining the moisture
content of each sample prior to processing through caustic fusion, DMS or bulk
density is necessary to allow an accurate dry weight of the kimberlite to be
calculated. The dry bulk density database comprises 2,127 bulk density records,
consisting of 1,672 measurements from drill core and 455 from bulk sampling.
When multiple measurements from the same sample, and multiple subsamples from
the same rock are averaged, and the laboratory quality control checks removed,
there are 1,770 spatially discrete density samples. Density variations did not
show a correlation with country rock dilution, nor was there a clearly
demonstrable change of density with increasing depth in the kimberlite pipes.

Caustic Fusion Sampling: The caustic fusion process is
used to evaluate, characterize and correlate the diamond potential of individual
kimberlite lithologies, and to provide data to facilitate the grade estimation
process. The objective of this type of test is to extract all diamonds greater
than 0.1 mm in size, through chemical dissolution of the host rock sample.
Individual samples may vary in size from a few kilograms to hundreds of
kilograms, depending on the available material and the specific purpose of the
testing. 
Kimberlite may be collected from drill core, float boulders,
subcrop, outcrop, underground exposures and subsamples of material in a process
facility or a combination thereof. Kimberlite is collected, described and
recorded by the site geologists following protocols in place at the time.
Samples are individually numbered, weighted, sealed in a tamper-resistant
container appropriate for the volume of material, and transported to the test
facility by a combination of charter aircraft and commercial couriers.
Individual sample results from comparable kimberlite units may be merged
together to provide larger, statistically more representative, samples. 
During the Renard Diamond Mine exploration programs,
microdiamonds were recovered by one internal facility situated in North
Vancouver, British Columbia (owned and operated by Stornoway) and four external
unrelated commercial facilities: Microlithics Laboratories Inc. located in
Thunder Bay, Ontario; SRC, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan; TBMPL (owned and operated by
Kennecott Canada Exploration Inc.), Thunder Bay; Ontario; and, SGS Lakefield
Research Ltd. in Lakefield, Ontario. 
Mini-Bulk Sampling: Although there is no formal
industry-accepted definition of a "mini-bulk" sample, many companies would agree
that the term is generally used to refer to the processing of kimberlite
material up to several tens of tonnes. This material may be derived from drill
core, RC chips, boulders, subcrop, outcrop, trenches or underground workings.
Mini-bulk samples are usually processed through DMS equipment that, depending on
specifications and diamond recovery objectives of a particular program, may be
configured to recover diamonds of greater than 0.5 mm, 0.85 mm or 1.18 mm on
square-mesh screens. In some cases caustic dissolution or other extraction
techniques may be utilized to recover the diamonds. All of Stornoway's mini-bulk
samples were processed through DMS equipment, and the diamond content is based
upon stones retained on either 1.18 mm square-mesh screens or +1 DTC screens.
Stornoway's mini-bulk sampling programs have used drill core, RC chips,
boulders, and surface trenches to source kimberlite material. 
D-12 

Bulk Sampling: Although there is no formal
industry-accepted definition of a "bulk" sample, many companies would agree that
the term is generally used to refer to the processing of kimberlite material
exceeding several tens of tonnes. This material may be derived from drill core,
RC chips, boulders, subcrop, outcrop, trenches or underground workings. Bulk
samples are usually processed through DMS equipment that, depending on
specifications and diamond recovery objectives of a particular program, may be
configured to recover diamonds of greater than 0.85 mm or 1.18 mm on square-mesh
screens. In some cases larger screen sizes or other extraction techniques may be
utilized for diamond recovery. All of Stornoway's bulk samples reported herein
comprise either surface trench or underground sample material, and were
processed through DMS equipment. The reported diamond content is based upon
stones retained on either 1.18 mm square mesh or +1 DTC screens. 
Certain drill core collected during historical drill programs
was composited and treated for macrodiamond recovery. RC chip sampling programs
were undertaken with objectives that varied from collecting a large amount of
kimberlite to create representative samples, to characterizing the grade over
various depth intervals, to regular sampling intervals. Since 2005, several
thousand tonnes of kimberlitic material have been excavated from trenches on the
Renard 4 and Renard 65 bodies and Lynx, Hibou and North Anomaly dykes.
Macrodiamond sample results are summarized in Table 1.4. 
Table 1.4: Summary of Macrodiamond Sampling Results 

 
 Kimberlite Body 
 Sample Type 
 Year 
 Number of 
 Samples 
 Weight 
 (dry t) 
 Total Carats 
 (+1 DTC)

 
 Renard 1 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 1

 0.3
 
 0.00
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003
 
 11
 
 10.0
 
 0.73
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 4

 2.9
 
 0.02
 
 
 Renard 2
 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 7

 5.0
 
 3.29
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003
 
 8

 8.6
 
 5.24
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 9

 12.5
 
 13.45 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 16
 
 6.7
 
 4.96
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2006
 
 7

 2.8
 
 2.71
 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2004
 
 12
 
 171.2 
 146.96 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2007
 
 15
 
 86.8
 
 70.95 
 
 Underground 
 2006/2007 
 15
 
 2448.8 
 1601.94 
 
 Underground (drums) 
 2014/2015 
 7

 1.4
 
 1.77
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 71
 
 54.6
 
 44.65 
 
 Renard 3 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 5

 4.9
 
 6.47
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 13
 
 13.8
 
 13.66 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2004
 
 10
 
 157.0 
 185.11 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2007
 
 13
 
 59.4
 
 34.86 
 
 Underground 
 2006/2007 
 13
 
 2113.7 
 2799.85 
 
 Renard 4 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 6

 4.8
 
 2.94
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003
 
 15
 
 12.4
 
 5.32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 36
 
 32.4
 
 13.62 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 1

 0.5
 
 0.48
 
D-13 

 
 Kimberlite Body 
 Sample Type 
 Year 
 Number of 
 Samples 
 Weight 
 (dry t) 
 Total Carats 
 (+1 DTC)

 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2004
 
 17
 
 141.8 
 53.23 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2006
 
 14
 
 41.4
 
 33.21 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2004
 
 2

 1.8
 
 3.09
 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2005
 
 6

 9.8
 
 17.76 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2006/2007 
 7

 2104.2 
 2721.88 
 
 Renard 65 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 2

 0.8
 
 1.19
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003
 
 23
 
 19.8
 
 8.47
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 22
 
 17.9
 
 4.05
 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2004
 
 18
 
 149.6 
 32.50 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2007
 
 2

 266.0 
 51.77 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2012
 
 1

 5080.8 
 963.38 
 
 Renard 7 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 4

 4.1
 
 0.10
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 3

 2.3
 
 0.00
 
 
 Renard 8 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 4

 6.1
 
 0.47
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 2

 1.4
 
 0.03
 
 
 Renard 9 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 6

 6.0
 
 5.65
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 4

 6.2
 
 6.38
 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2006
 
 19
 
 70.3
 
 35.84 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2007
 
 5

 27.3
 
 11.97 
 
 Renard 10 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 3

 1.7
 
 0.00
 
 
 Hibou 
 Surface Sample 
 2005
 
 5

 19.8
 
 4.68
 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2006
 
 2

 31.4
 
 39.53 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2008
 
 1

 543.9 
 781.41 
 
 Lynx 
 Surface Sample 
 2003
 
 3

 3.9
 
 4.46
 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2004
 
 2

 10.3
 
 14.92 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2005
 
 6

 34.7
 
 42.33 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2007
 
 3

 494.3 
 528.93 
 
 North Anomaly

 Surface Sample 
 2006/2008 
 3

 46.4
 
 44.90 
Four DMS process facilities have been used as primary
macrodiamond extraction laboratories during the Renard exploration programs to
date: two separate third party commercial facilities (a 10 tonnes per hour plant
owned by TBMPL and a 1.5 tonnes per hour plant operated by Microlithics) and two
facilities owned and operated by Stornoway (a 5 tonnes per hour plant in North
Vancouver, British Columbia and a 10 tonnes per hour plant at Camp Lagopède,
Québec). 
D-14 

Diamond bearing concentrates generated by DMS processing of
underground bulk samples, large tonnage trench samples and RC chip samples from
the Renard Diamond Mine were all subjected to final processing at Stornoway's North Vancouver laboratory facilities. The diamond recovery
circuit includes a sizing circuit, an X-ray flow-sort machine and grease table
equipment. All processing of concentrates was undertaken in secured, controlled
access, closed-circuit TV monitored areas of the North Vancouver facilities. DMS
operations, post-processing treatment of DMS concentrates, observing, and
post-observation handling of concentrates and diamonds, from 2004 to the
present, were conducted under approved security protocols and procedures, which
include but are not limited to: 

 
 
 • 
 Chain of Custody documentation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Dual locking containers; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Uniquely numbered, single use, tamper resistant
 seals; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Monitoring and control of sample weights;

 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Limited access or dual access to certain
 laboratory premises; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Closed-circuit TV surveillance; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 External (third party) security guards.
 
Comparative analysis of diamond size distribution is checked
against historical and external laboratory results. Data collected from the
various exploration, mini-bulk, and sampling programs were collated into an SQL
Server relational database where access is restricted to the database
administrator only. The database is stored on the server in the North Vancouver
office, with backups being performed every day. Processing and diamond results
hard copy data are stored in fire resistant filing cabinets in the North
Vancouver office as are hard copy data of the Renard core field logging. In
addition, these hardcopies have been scanned as digital PDF files which are
stored on the server. 
QA/QC programs conducted by Stornoway include: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Blind spiking of samples in processing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Blind spiking of samples in observing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Regular testing of all machines and equipment; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Calibration and verification procedures; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Routine audits of non-observable fractions and reject
 materials; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Use of internal standards and reference materials;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A record-keeping system of documentation, which retains
 in archives all original records and data, with all amendments clearly
 marked, initialled and dated for reference; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Corrective actions which are implemented immediately when
 any aspect of laboratory analysis, or chain of custody documentation does
 not conform to procedural standards; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The investigation and verification of any result which
 appears to be a potential statistical anomaly, to ensure laboratory
 results fit within the geological context; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Use of external laboratories for check samples including
 QP visits. 
As part of the independent expert review, the following
verification checks were conducted on the Foxtrot Property: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Site visits from March 5 to March 8, 2009; August 21,
 2012; July 29 to July 31, 2014; and April 20 to April 22, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of the surface and underground geological and
 mineralization interpretations; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of the historic and current exploration programs;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of deposit model; 
D-15 

 
 
 • 
 
 Review of data that are supporting Mineral Resource
 models. The review covered drill core inspection, review of core logging,
 sampling and assay protocols and methods, and review of sample security
 measures and sample storage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of QA/QC data protocols and methods, data
 integrity and validation of RC, drill core and underground data, and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of diamond valuation methodologies.
 
Independent samples were not collected and treated since this
is not practical for diamond sampling. Stornoway's published and practiced
procedures for collection of data in the field and transposition of these data
into data 'products' to support resource evaluation work and initial costing
exercises meet industry best practice guidelines. 
These data have been collected, compiled and analyzed by a
combination of methodologies in order to cater to the spatial distribution of
sampling and the amount of information available for each kimberlite domain in
each body. 
Unlike commodities such as gold or base metals, diamonds do not
have a standard value per unit weight that can be used to calculate value of a
deposit. A one carat diamond can be worth from less than one dollar to tens of
thousands of dollars, depending on the shape, colour and quality. A parcel of
diamonds must be individually examined to establish an average value. While
diamond values also vary over time, the trend has been towards an increase with
time. Multiple valuations from different professional diamond valuers, or
diamantaires, are necessary, and are usually averaged to give an estimate of the
probable true price of the goods in question. Diamond price estimates can differ
between valuers by as much as ± 20%. This is especially so on smaller parcels of
diamonds. These differences are simply due to the fact that different
diamantaires will perceive the value of a stone or parcel of stones differently.
Their price guidelines will differ somewhat as well. 
A cumulative 8,315.58 carat diamond parcel acquired by bulk
sampling underground, trench sampling and RC drilling completed by Stornoway
between 2003 and 2007 was used for value modelling. In a valuation exercise, it
is necessary to involve a number of diamantaires to obtain a range of valuations
that can be averaged to get an accurate price estimate and to use these data to
model an average price. Often, in early stage evaluations of diamond projects,
diamond price modelling is undertaken. In price modelling, the small sample size
is compensated for by estimation of what the diamond population in a larger
sample would be. By doing this, the valuer attempts to predict the likelihood of
finding larger stones and what their effect on the overall value of the parcel
would be and, as such, estimate more closely what the run-of-mine value would
be. Modelling involves study of the diamond parcel on hand, including size
distributions and valuations, to statistically estimate the upper and lower
limits of a production parcel at certain confidence levels based upon the small
parcel on hand. To accomplish this, Stornoway contracted WWW IDC to obtain
valuations and perform price modelling. WWW IDC are recognized international
leaders in this field. 
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves 
2015 Mineral Resource Estimate 
Following a 2014 deep directional drill program at the Renard 2
kimberlite, and extensive related sampling activities both at Renard 2 and other
project kimberlites, an updated Mineral Resource estimate was completed in
accordance with the CIM Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve definitions
referred to in NI 43-101 and reported on September 24, 2015, for Renard 2,
Renard 3 and Renard 4. That work, as well as a target for further exploration
for the Renard 1, Renard 7 and Renard 10 kimberlite pipes and the Hibou
kimberlite dyke system, was more fully documented in an NI 43-101 technical
report entitled "2015 Mineral Resource Update for the Renard Diamond Project,
Québec, Canada" with an effective date of September 24, 2015 (available on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com). 
The 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate comprises the integration of
kimberlite volumes, density, petrology and diamond content data derived from
101,078 m of diamond drilling (497 holes), 6,151 m of large diameter reverse
circulation (RC) drilling (36 holes), 23.7 tonnes of samples submitted for
microdiamond analysis, 196 carats (cts) of diamonds (3,107 stones) recovered
from drill core, 605 cts of diamonds (7,181 stones) recovered from RC drilling,
4,404 cts of diamonds (40,521 stones) recovered from underground bulk sampling
and 5,219 cts of diamonds (52,474 stones) recovered from surface and trench sampling. The
estimate also incorporates information derived from approximately 150 drill
holes, 37 surface test pits and 12 trenches undertaken for geotechnical and
hydrogeological purposes. Results are tabulated in Table 1.5 and Table 1.6. The
2015 Mineral Resource Estimate is based on the continuity of geology between
kimberlite at depth and kimberlite nearer surface, and the generally low
variation in sample results for the different kimberlite phases with depth. 
D-16 

Table 1.5: September 2015 Indicated Mineral Resources of the
Renard Diamond Mine 

 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 Total 
 
 Average 
 
 Average 
 
 
 
 Deposit 
 
 Tonnes(4) 
 
 Carats(4) 
 
 cpht(5) 
 
 Dilution % 
 
 
 
 Renard 2 Total 
 
 25,696,000 
 
 21,578,000 
 
 84.0 
 
 54.7 
 
 
 Renard 2 w/o CRB(6) 
 
 21,417,000 
 
 20,680,000 
 
 96.6 
 
 46.4 
 
 
 Renard 2 CRB 
 
 4,279,000 
 
 899,000 
 
 21.0 
 
 96.0 
 
 
 Renard 3 
 
 1,820,000 
 
 1,859,000 
 
 102.2 
 
 33.5 
 
 
 Renard 4 
 
 7,246,000 
 
 4,437,000 
 
 61.2 
 
 48.9 
 
 
 Renard 65 
 
 7,865,000 
 
 2,300,000 
 
 29.2 
 
 42.8 
 
 
 Renard 9 
 
 0 
 
 0 
 
 0 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 Lynx 
 
 0 
 
 0 
 
 0 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 Hibou 
 
 0 
 
 0 
 
 0 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 Total 
 
 42,627,000 
 
 30,175,000 
 
 70.8 
 
 50.6 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 (1) 
 Effective date is September 24, 2015. 
 
 (2) 
 Classified according to CIM Definition
 Standards. 
 
 (3) 
 Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and
 do not have demonstrated economic viability. 
 
 (4) 
 Totals may not add due to rounding. 
 
 (5) 
 Carats per hundred tonnes. Estimated at a +1
 DTC sieve size cut-off. 
 
 (6) 
 Excludes discrete more dilute kimberlite facies
 not previously incorporated into July 2013 Resource. Provided to
 facilitate more direct comparison with 2013 Mineral Resource estimate.
 
Table 1.6: September 2015 Inferred Mineral Resources of the
Renard Diamond Mine 

 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 Total 
 
 Average 
 
 Average 
 
 
 
 Deposit 
 
 Tonnes(4) 
 
 Carats(4) 
 
 cpht(5) 
 
 Dilution % 
 
 
 
 Renard 2 Total 
 
 6,589,000 
 
 3,883,000 
 
 58.9 
 
 72.8 
 
 
 Renard 2 w/o CRB(6) 
 
 4,080,000 
 
 3,356,000 
 
 82.3 
 
 58.5 
 
 
 Renard 2 CRB 
 
 2,510,000 
 
 527,000 
 
 21.0 
 
 96.0 
 
 
 Renard 3 
 
 542,000 
 
 609,000 
 
 112.3 
 
 39.4 
 
 
 Renard 4 
 
 4,750,000 
 
 2,455,000 
 
 51.7 
 
 56.3 
 
 
 Renard 65 
 
 4,928,000 
 
 1,181,000 
 
 24.0 
 
 56.5 
 
 
 Renard 9 
 
 5,704,000 
 
 3,040,000 
 
 53.3 
 
 63.6 
 
 
 Lynx 
 
 1,798,000 
 
 1,924,000 
 
 107 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 Hibou 
 
 178,000 
 
 256,000 
 
 144 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 Total 
 
 24,490,000 
 
 13,348,000 
 
 54.5 
 
 n/a 
D-17 

 
 Notes: 
 
 
 (1) 
 Effective date is September 24, 2015 
 
 (2) 
 Classified according to CIM Definition
 Standards. 
 
 (3) 
 Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and
 do not have demonstrated economic viability. 
 
 (4) 
 Totals may not add due to rounding. 
 
 (5) 
 Carats per hundred tonnes. Estimated at a +1
 DTC sieve size cut-off. 
 
 (6) 
 Excludes discrete more dilute kimberlite facies
 not previously incorporated into July 2013 Indicated Resource. Provided to
 facilitate more direct comparison with 2013 Mineral Resource estimate.
 
There is additional potential for the project, as the
geological models for Renard 2, Renard 3, Renard 4, Renard 65, and Renard 9 are
based on conservative geometries for the kimberlites at depth, and the models do
not incorporate areas of limited drilling at depth. New work was also undertaken
during 2013, 2014 and 2015 on the Renard 1, Renard 7, Renard 8 and Renard 10
kimberlite pipes, and various kimberlite dyke systems on the property. The TFFE
- previously known as PMD before the June 30, 2011 revisions to NI 43-101 - are
detailed in Table 1.7. Total TFFE was identified as representing between 76 and
113 million tonnes, containing between 33 and 71 million carats of diamonds, at
an average grade of 43 to 63 cpht. The potential quantity and grade of any TFFE
is conceptual in nature, there is insufficient exploration to define a Mineral
Resource and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the target
being delineated as a Mineral Resource. 
Table 1.7: September 2015 Target For Further Exploration of
the Renard Diamond Mine 

 
 Low
 Range 
 High Range 
 
 
 
 Deposit 
 Total Tonnes 
 Total Carats 
 Average cpht 
 Total Tonnes 
 Total Carats 
 Average cpht 
 
 
 Renard 2 
 6,138,000 
 3,683,000 
 60
 
 15,472,000 
 15,472,000 
 100
 
 
 Renard 3 
 3,352,000 
 3,520,000 
 105
 
 3,773,000 
 6,338,000 
 168
 
 
 Renard 4 
 11,120,000 
 5,560,000 
 50
 
 15,358,000 
 11,826,000 
 77
 
 
 Renard 65 
 29,026,000 
 7,257,000 
 25
 
 40,926,000 
 13,506,000 
 33
 
 
 Renard 9 
 3,858,000 
 2,006,000 
 52
 
 6,327,000 
 4,302,000 
 68
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lynx 
 3,089,000 
 2,966,000 
 96
 
 3,199,000 
 3,839,000 
 120
 
 
 Hibou 
 3,469,000 
 3,608,000 
 104
 
 4,028,000 
 6,082,000 
 151
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 1 
 8,620,000 
 1,724,000 
 20
 
 12,983,000 
 3,895,000 
 30
 
 
 Renard 7 
 6,342,000 
 1,902,000 
 30
 
 9,431,000 
 3,772,000 
 40
 
 
 Renard 10 
 1,217,000 
 730,000 
 60
 
 1,730,000 
 2,076,000 
 120
 
 
 Total(2) 
 76,232,000 
 32,956,000 
 43
 
 113,227,000 
 71,108,000 
 63
 

 
 Notes: 
 
 (1) 
 Previously known as PMD prior to June 30, 2011
 changes to NI 43-101. 
 
 (2) 
 Totals may not equal the sum of the individuals
 due to rounding. 
For the purposes of the 2016 Technical Report, only the
Indicated Mineral Resources were considered. 
D-18 

Mineral Reserves 
A detailed mine plan was developed to extract the Indicated
Mineral Resources of the Renard Diamond Mine. Dilution and recovery assumptions
were applied, and cut-off grades were calculated using preliminary costs and
diamond valuations. Open pit and underground Probable Mineral Reserves were
estimated independently based on criteria specific to each method. A
reconciliation of the Indicated Mineral Resources included in the open pit and
underground mine plans was completed, confirming that all available resources
were included. 
The Renard 2 and Renard 3 kimberlite pipes will be mined
through a combination of open pit and underground mining methods while the
Renard 65 pipe will be mined by open pit method only and Renard 4 pipe will be
mined by underground methods only. 
Open Pit: Reserves for the surface mine design are
reported according to CIM standards. According to these standards, resource
model blocks classified as Measured and Indicated are reported as Proven and
Probable mineral reserves respectively. Owing to those reporting standards, the
Inferred Resources cannot be included as reserves and so have not been included
in the life of mine schedule. No resource blocks are classified as Measured and
therefore no part of the Mineral Reserve classifies as Proven. The total
Probable Mineral Reserve includes an ore dilution factor and an ore recovery
factor to estimate a recoverable mining reserve. 
The ore outline mining shapes consisted of expanding the
modelled kimberlite solids to incorporate a 1 m dilution envelope. Specific
dilution factors were estimated for each kimberlite orebody through compilations
performed on a bench by bench basis. The dilution envelope is assumed not to
contain diamonds and is therefore considered to be of zero grade. The dilution
factors by bench per kimberlite pipe are shown in Tables 1.8 and 1.9. For
Mineral Reserve estimation, a 98% mine recovery factor was then applied to
account for ore unrecovered at the edge of the orebody. The cut-off grades used
for the Mineral Reserve estimation are shown in Table 1.10. 
Table 1.8: R2, R3 & R65 Dilution by Bench 

 
 
 Bench 
 Bench Dilution (%) 
 
 
 R2 
 R3 
 CRB 
 CRB2a 
 R65 
 
 
 500 
 -

 10.1
 
 -

 -

 -
 
 
 490 
 4.4
 
 10.5
 
 4.4
 
 3.4
 
 -
 
 
 480 
 1.6
 
 12.9
 
 3.3
 
 2.5
 
 4.2
 
 
 470 
 0.8
 
 13.6
 
 3.4
 
 2.3
 
 3.8
 
 
 460 
 0.9
 
 16.6
 
 3.5
 
 2.1
 
 3.6
 
 
 450 
 1.5
 
 12.6
 
 3.3
 
 1.9
 
 3.7
 
 
 440 
 1.7
 
 10.8
 
 4.6
 
 2.0
 
 3.6
 
 
 430 
 2.0
 
 9.8
 
 5.3
 
 1.7
 
 4.1
 
 
 420 
 2.6
 
 9.1
 
 5.3
 
 1.3
 
 3.6
 
 
 410 
 2.4
 
 9.3
 
 6.7
 
 1.1
 
 3.8
 
 
 400 
 1.3
 
 5.5
 
 6.2
 
 0.6
 
 3.6
 
 
 390 
 0.5
 
 -

 -

 -

 3.6
 
 
 380 
 0.2
 
 -

 -

 -

 3.5
 
 
 370 
 -

 -

 -

 -

 3.5
 
 
 360 
 -

 -

 -

 -

 2.6
 
D-19 

 
 
 Bench 
 Bench Dilution (%) 
 
 
 R2 
 R3 
 CRB 
 CRB2a 
 R65 
 
 
 350 
 -

 -

 -

 -

 2.1
 
 
 Average 
 1.72
 
 11.44 
 4.32
 
 1.75
 
 3.51
 
Table 1.9: Average Dilution Factors 

 
 
 
 Dilution 
 R2 (Kimb2a; Kimb2b; CRB2a; CRB) 
 R3 
 R65 
 
 
 Diluted Ore
 Tonnage 
 4,333,020 
 793,719 
 4,578,679 
 
 Dilution Factor

 2.73% 
 11.44% 
 3.51% 
Table 1.10: Open Pit Cut-off grade (cpht) 

 
 R2
 (Kimb2a; Kimb2b; CRB2a; CRB) 
 R3 
 R65 
 
 
 16.2 
 22.1
 
 17.0
 
The total in-situ open pit Probable Mineral Reserve is
estimated at 8.91 million tonnes of ore at an average diluted grade of 44.4 cpht
for 3.96 million carats. The Renard 3 pipe has the highest average diamond grade
at 92.3 cpht, followed by Renard 2 at an average grade of 59.6 cpht (after
inclusion of the "CRB" and "CRB-2A" units). Renard 65 is a lower
grade pit containing 4.58 Mt of ore at an average grade of 30.1 cpht for 1.38
million carats. As of December 31, 2015, 153 kt of ore have been mined and
stockpiled containing an estimated 113 thousand carats. 
Underground: The first step in the estimation of the
underground Probable Mineral Reserves was to create 3-D shapes for each of the
proposed stopes based on the Indicated Mineral Resource model and the planned
mining method. Practical shapes compatible with the planned development of the
drawpoint levels and drill drifts, available drill patterns, the type of
drilling equipment selected, and likely post blast outlines, were created. The
pipes outlines in some areas are irregular and in these areas practical
(smoothed) mining outlines were created, which typically encapsulated some waste
rock and occasionally excluded some kimberlite. Once all volumes were created,
the tonnage and grade of all the Indicated Mineral Resources contained within
each stope shape were queried using the resource block model, Deswik software
and excel spreadsheet for the resource to reserve conversion. 
The modifying factors of mining recovery and external dilution
of BHS mining have been applied to the contained Indicated Mineral Resource and
waste in the stope shapes. The assumptions of recovery and dilution for BHS
mining used for the 2016 Technical Report are listed in Table 1.11. Additional
simulations will be performed to optimise these factors as the mining strategy
is being refined for R2, and new simulations will be done for R3 and R4 to
validate current assumptions. 
Table 1.11: Assumptions of Recovery and Dilution of BHS
Mining 

 
 
 Modifying Factor 
 Pipe 
 
 
 
 R2 
 R3 
 R4 
 
 Mining Dilution

 20%

 14%

 14% 
 
 Mining Recovery

 82%

 85%

 78% 
Considerations for recovery and dilution estimate assumptions
for BHS mining were the following: 
D-20 

 
 
 • 
 
 the first 35% of the production is swell, which is
 expected to have very low dilution. When the stope is full of blasted ore,
 the first 50% to 60% of the drawdown is also expected to have very low
 dilution and high recovery. When backfill waste starts mixing with the ore
 as it is drawn down, it is expected that dilution for each tonne drawn
 will start increasing significantly; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 placement of drawpoints and drawdown planning are
 critical to achieve mass flow and minimize "rat-holing" of the blasted ore
 in the stope during drawdown; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 grade of all external dilution has been assumed to be
 zero, even if it is known that the CRB units, which surround the pipes in
 many locations, contain diamonds; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 for internal design dilution, a grade of 21 cpht has been
 assumed for the CRB above the 300 m elevation (Indicated Resources). The
 grade of the CRB below this elevation (Inferred Resources) was assumed at
 0 cpht, the same for all other waste rock units; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 it is expected that much of the dilution will come from
 open pit waste rock, placed on top of the blasted kimberlite, which will
 contain no grade; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 material from drawcones located mostly in waste will be
 screened according to the following guidelines:

 
 
 • 
 waste/ore percentage < 75% = 0% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 250% > waste/ore percentage > 75% = 33%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 750% > waste/ore percentage > 250% = 67%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 750% < waste/ore percentage = 100%
 

 
 
 • 
 
 where a significant amount of blasted waste is included
 in the stope design, it was considered that it would either be left in the
 stopes (if on top of the ore) or screened (if below the ore) following the
 assumption that 33% will be mixed with the blasted ore and recovered, and
 67% will be left in place at the end of the stope extraction. This was
 done on a stope by stope basis, making sure that it is operationally
 feasible. 
At the very bottom level (710L for Renard 2 and 270L for Renard
4), the kimberlite remaining on the underside of the drawpoint troughs will not
be recovered as part of BHS mining. At the very end of the mine life, sublevel
retreat mining will be used, to recover this ore. Up holes will be drilled from
all the drawpoints and scram drifts located below the troughs and cones, and
then the holes will be blasted and the ore mucked in a retreat fashion. 
At this stage, the mine-life estimated average recovery and
dilution factors have been applied to each individual mined block (drawcone,
stopes and sills) as not enough information is available to perform this
exercise on a stope by stope basis. These factors will certainly vary for each
mined block. 
The grade of all the stopes was compared to the cut-off grades
shown in Table 1.12, and all stopes were found to exceed this cut-off. 
Table 1.12: Underground Cut-off grade (cpht) 

 
 R2
 (Kimb2a; Kimb2b; CRB2a; CRB) 
 R3 
 R4 
 
 
 29.2 
 36.6
 
 37.1 
Of the three underground pipes in the Probable Mineral Reserve,
Renard 2 contains 81% of the tonnes and 86% of the carats, Renard 4 contains 14%
of the tonnes and 9% of the carats, and Renard 3 contains 5% of the tonnes and
carats. 
All open pit and underground Mineral Reserves are in the
"Probable" category. A consolidated summary of open pit and underground Probable
Mineral Reserves, by mining method and pipe, effective as of December 31, 2015,
is presented in Table 1.13. 
D-21 

Table 1.13: Probable Mineral Reserve Summary – Open Pit and
Underground 

 
 
 Mine 
 
 Tonnes
 (k) 
 
 Grade
 (cpht) 
 
 Carats
 (k) 
 % 
 Tonnes Total 
 % 
 Carats Total 
 
 % Tonnes Method 
 
 %
 Carats Method 
 
 
 
 OPEN PIT 
 
 R2 
 1,489 
 92.7 
 1,381 
 4.5% 
 6.2% 
 16.7% 
 34.9% 
 
 CRB2A 
 475 
 31.4 
 149 
 1.4% 
 0.7% 
 5.3% 
 3.8% 
 
 CRB 
 1,575 
 20.2 
 319 
 4.7% 
 1.4% 
 17.7% 
 8.1% 
 
 R2 Subtotal 
 3,539 
 52.2 
 1,849 
 10.6% 
 8.4% 
 39.7% 
 46.7% 
 
 R3 Subtotal 
 794 
 92.3 
 733 
 2.4% 
 3.3% 
 8.9% 
 18.5% 
 
 R65
 Subtotal 
 4,579 
 30.1 
 1,376 
 13.8% 
 6.2% 
 51.4% 
 34.8% 
 
 TOTAL OP 
 8,912 
 44.4 
 3,958 
 26.8% 
 17.9% 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 
 UNDERGROUND 
 
 
 R2-290 
 5,111 
 63.3 
 3,236 
 15.4% 
 14.6% 
 21.0% 
 17.8% 
 
 R2-470 
 4,744 
 84.7 
 4,017 
 14.3% 
 18.1% 
 19.5% 
 22.1% 
 
 R2-590 
 4,750 
 89.9 
 4,270 
 14.3% 
 19.3% 
 19.5% 
 23.5% 
 
 R2-710 
 5,073 
 81.4 
 4,132 
 15.2% 
 18.7% 
 20.8% 
 22.7% 
 
 R2 Subtotal 
 19,679 
 79.6 
 15,655 
 59.1% 
 70.7% 
 80.8% 
 86.1% 
 
 R3 Subtotal 
 1,223 
 70.2 
 858 
 3.7% 
 3.9% 
 5.0% 
 4.7% 
 
 R4 Subtotal 
 3,458 
 48.3 
 1,671 
 10.4% 
 7.5% 
 14.2% 
 9.2% 
 
 TOTAL UG
 24,360 
 74.6 
 18,184 
 73.2% 
 82.1% 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 STOCKPILE 
 153 
 73.5 
 113 
 
 
 
 
 
 TOTAL OP, UG & 
 Stockpile 
 33,424 
 66.5 
 22,255 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 
 

 
 Notes: 
 
 (1) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves have an effective date of
 December 31, 2015. The Probable Mineral Reserves were prepared under the
 supervision of Patrick Godin, Eng., Chief Operating Officer and Director
 of Stornoway. Mr. Godin is a Qualified Person within the meaning of NI
 43-101. 
 
 (2) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves are reported on a 100% basis.
 
 
 (3) 
 
 The reference point for the definition of Probable
 Mineral Reserves is at the point of delivery to the process plant.
 
 
 (4) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves are reported at +1.0 mm
 (effective cut-off of 1.0 mm). 
 
 (5) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves that will be or are mined using
 open pit methods include Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 65. Probable
 Mineral Reserves are estimated using the following assumptions: Renard 2
 and Renard 3 open pit designs assuming external dilution of 4.3% and
 mining recovery of 98%; Renard 65 open pit design assuming external
 dilution of 3.5% and mining recovery of 98%. 
 
 (6) 
 
 Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 Probable Mineral Reserves
 are mined using underground mining methods. The Renard 2 Probable Mineral
 Reserve estimate assumed an external dilution of 20% and mining recovery
 of 82%. The Renard 3 Probable Mineral Reserve estimate assumed an external
 dilution of 14% and mining recovery of 85%. The Renard 4 Probable Mineral
 Reserve estimate assumed an external dilution of 14% and mining recovery
 of 78%. 
 
 (7) 
 
 Tonnes are reported as thousand metric tonnes, diamond
 grades as carats per hundred tonnes, and contained diamond carats as
 thousands of contained carats. 
 
 (8) 
 
 Tables may not sum as totals have been rounded in
 accordance with reporting guidelines. 
D-22 

Factors that may affect the Probable Mineral Reserve estimates
include: 

 
 
 • 
 
 New data from ongoing and upcoming sampling programs;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Updates to assumptions used in estimating diamond carat
 content, including bulk density, pipe geometry and dimension, and grade
 interpolation method; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Geological interpretation of internal kimberlite units
 and/or domain boundaries; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Changes to mine design and/or planning parameters;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Unforeseen mine geotechnical and/or hydrological
 conditions; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Depletion due to mining or sampling; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Further improvement, or deterioration, of process plant
 recovery; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 External influences on operating and sustaining capital
 costs, including without being limited to, energy costs and escalation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Diamond price and valuation assumptions; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Foreign exchange rates, especially Canadian dollars
 versus United States dollars; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Variations to the permitting, operating or social licence
 regime assumptions, in particular if permitting parameters are modified by
 regulatory authorities during permit renewals. 
Mining Operations 
The mining strategy for the Renard Diamond Mine is to extract
the near surface portions of the kimberlite orebodies by open pit mining methods
and to recover the extensions at depth using the underground BHS method. The
selection of this underground mining method is the result of a trade-off study
that was conducted to determine the best method for the project. The fact that
the orebody can be mined by underground mining methods affects the optimum open
pit size and is a trade-off of profit from mining by open pit versus underground
mining techniques. 
Open Pit Design 
Open pit optimization was carried out using the Whittle
software package implementing the Lerch-Grossman algorithm. The Whittle
optimizations were performed using the 2015 Mineral Resource Update. The 2016
Technical Report considers mineralization classified in the Indicated Resource
category, which limits open pit mining to the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 65
kimberlite ore bodies. 
A mining dilution factor was estimated for each pipe by
including a 1 m envelope around the ore. The resulting dilution factor, which
was employed in the optimization process, was used to calculate the diluted
grade. For optimizations, an ore recovery of 96% was used for Renard 2 and
Renard 3 and 100% for R65, while for Probable Mineral Reserves estimates, a
uniform 98% was used for the open pits. Several optimization iterations and
cases were performed for the R2/R3 open pit imposing certain surface and pit
depth constraints. The selected R2/R3 pit shell is not limited by surface
constraints, but is limited to elevation 380 in the pit where the current
underground mine is designed to recover the ore body. The R65 pit is constrained
at surface due to the road and lake bounding the pit on the south side and does
not consider that the ore body will be mined by underground methods. Bench
heights of 10 m were selected to facilitate efficient drilling and blasting
activities. The loading units will mine the benches in 10-m-high cuts. The pit
slope profile was determined using geotechnical recommendations from Golder and
Itasca Consulting Canada Inc. The modelled overburden thickness varies from 5 m
at the edges to > 27 m over the center of the orebodies. The slope
configuration recommendations vary based on overburden thickness. The Renard 2
and Renard 3 open pit excavations result in a single pit at surface with two pit
bottoms centered on the respective orebodies. The excavation is therefore
treated as a single pit and is referred to as the R2/R3 open pit. The R2/R3 open
pit is too small to allow for internal pit phases. The Renard 65 pit is centered
on one main kimberlite and will be mined in three phases to maximize value and
sequence waste mining. 
D-23 

Underground Mine Development 
Access to the mine will be provided by a ramp to exploit the
Probable Mineral Reserves that have been defined down to a depth of 710 m for
the Renard 2 pipe, 250 m for the Renard 3 pipe and 270 m for the Renard 4 pipe.
The underground mine has been planned so that a single common ramp will provide
access to all three Renard pipes. The ramp has been sized to allow efficient ore
extraction with an underground mobile equipment fleet, such as 60t haul trucks
and 20t LHDs. It will be driven from surface to the 710L and will connect to all
six drill levels and four production levels. Since only a ramp and a supported
raise with a manway have access through to surface, all workers, equipment and
materials will be transported in and out of the underground mine via the ramp
facility. To facilitate smooth traffic in the ramp during the ore haul, passing
bays were incorporated into the ramp design to allow loaded ore trucks to travel
the ramp with minimal interruptions. The Renard 3 and Renard 4 pipes will be
accessed either from the main ramp or from existing levels initially developed
to access Renard 2. 
During the life-of-mine, a total of 37.0 km of development will
be excavated of which 4.0 km will be in initial or pre-production capital with
the remainder in operating and sustaining capital. This development will produce
0.6 Mt of kimberlite ore and 2.0 Mt of waste. Ramp development was initiated in
December 2014 with an initial 8 m cut, and then recommenced in April 2015. As of
December 31, 2015, 887 m of development had been completed. The main ramp will
remain the highest priority task until 290L is reached, as it is part of the
critical path to start the underground operation. The planned rates per
development team are 5.2 m/d for the ramp; 5.5 m/d for a single face in standard
size tunnels, and 6.5 m/d if there are multiple faces available in standard size
tunnels. Except for the first 8 m, which were performed by a contractor, all
lateral development will be done by Stornoway-employed crews with newly
purchased equipment. 
The main exhaust raise will be a vertical and supported 5.0 m
in diameter raise, extending from surface to 710L. It will be excavated in four
sections: surface to 290L; 290L to 470L; 470L to 590L; and 590L to 710L. The
main fresh air raise will be a vertical 6.5 -m diameter supported raise, also
extending from surface to 710L. It will be excavated in five sections: surface
to 160L; 160L to 290L; 290L to 470L; 470L to 590L and 590L to 710L. The fresh
air raise will also serve as the secondary egress from the mine in the event of
emergency where the primary egress through the ramp is unavailable. Mine
services such as electrical cables, fuel line, mine water, dewatering,
compressed air and communications will be provided through the raise as well.

Underground Mining 
At the outset of the mine design contemplated in the report
titled "The Renard Diamond Project, Québec, Canada, Feasibility Study, NI 43-101
Technical Report" dated December 29, 2011, a trade-off study was conducted to
select the preferred underground mining method or methods to be used to extract
the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 pipes. In the study, potential mining
methods were identified, evaluated and compared considering safety, dilution and
recovery, production capacity, schedule, economics, risks and opportunities. As
part of this study, a rock mechanics evaluation was conducted by Itasca
Consulting Canada Inc., which determined that the Renard 2 and Renard 4 pipes
were unlikely to support natural progressive caving, since the "caving" region
is reached only for the lowest rock properties and largest hydraulic radius. As
a result, block caving was eliminated as a potential mining method. Four
underground mining methods were shortlisted and evaluated, including BHS,
sublevel retreat, long hole panel mining with backfill, and blasthole shrinkage
with pillars. Based on this study, the BHS mining method was selected to mine
the underground portions of the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 kimberlite
pipes. 
The BHS method consists of drilling and blasting the ore with
long large-diameter blastholes, and extracting the ore at the base of the stopes
from drawpoints. During the blasting phase, ore is left in the stope to support
the walls until the complete stope has been blasted. Since ore expands when
blasted due to the voids in the broken rock, it is necessary to draw out this
swell on an ongoing basis, approximately 35% of the total in situ ore. Thus,
with this method, there is a continual supply of ore production throughout the
blasting period, and once the blasting is complete, the remaining broken ore can
be drawn from the stope – generally at a very high rate with few restrictions.

The expected advantages of BHS are: 

 
 
 • 
 High production capacity capable of producing
 6,000 tonnes per day ; 
D-24 

 
 
 • 
 
 Minimizes overall development requirements with large
 sublevel spacing (60 m); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Blasted ore left in the stope (shrinkage) provides
 support to stope walls until the blasted ore is drawn down; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Modern large equipment (20t LHD's and in-the-hole drills
 with 60+ m blasthole lengths) can be used, resulting in high equipment
 productivity; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Initial production from the stopes can begin before
 completion of the R2/R3 OP; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Over half of the blasted ore can be recovered with low
 dilution before higher dilution in the final drawdown phase begins.
 
The BHS method has been designed to progress in four stages
from the top of the pipe (bottom of the open pit) downwards. As the ore is drawn
from the stope, a large open void will be created if no backfill is used. The
mine plan is to fill this void using open pit waste as backfill placed into the
stope by dumping it from trucks on surface onto the top of the broken ore column
being drawn down in the pipe. For Renard 2 and Renard 3, waste will be dumped
over the edge of the pit, while for Renard 4, wastes will be dumped into
backfill raises leading to the top of the underground stope. This use of open
pit wastes will also enable the rehabilitation of the waste rock pile during
mine operation rather than at the end of the mine life. 
A 3D view of the planned development and stopes is shown in
Figure 1.14. 
Figure 1.14: 3D View of the Renard Mine 

 
For production mining, the Renard 2 pipe has been divided
vertically into four production stages (zones), each located at elevations where
the ore body changes geometry and orientation, so that recovery and dilution
factors could be optimized. The resulting production levels with this design are
at level 290L, 470L, 590L and 710L (all level designations are depth below
surface in metres). Their respective heights are 165 m (up to the pit bottom),
180 m and 120 m for the last two stages. Drawpoints and cones will be located at
the base of each of the stages. A top-down mining sequence is planned for the
four mining zones in Renard 2. 
D-25 

The base of the Indicated Resource in the Renard 4 pipe is 235
m below surface (270 m from FAR collar) and will be mined below a 100-m-thick
crown pillar for a vertical height of 135 m. The interpretation of the shape of
the Renard 4 pipe is oblong, and very regular in its outline, so this height was
deemed to be suitable for BHS mining. One production level and two drill levels
will be used to extract all reserves from the Renard 4 orebody, which will also
be subdivided into vertical panels as Renard 2. The bottom production level for
Renard 4 pipe is at the 270L. 
The Renard 3 pipe is fairly large close to surface, but then
necks down to a fairly small pipe below the open pit and further necks down at
the base of the Indicated Mineral Resources at a depth of 250 m. Due to the very
irregular shape of the orebody, the Renard 3 pipe was divided in two stopes. The
stope on the West side of the pipe will first be mined bottom up by BHS as its
grade and size are more important. This opens the opportunity to recover most of
the carats in R3 without adding fill before the stope is depleted. Once the
first stope is filled with waste, the stope on the East side of the pipe (stope
2) will be mined using standard long hole stoping, as it is too narrow to
accommodate drawcones. The bottom of the only production level for the Renard 3
pipe is at 250L, and the mining of two stopes will extend up to the bottom of
the pit. 
Production Schedule 
The mine production schedule was developed to initially supply
the plant at a nominal rate of 2.16 Million tonnes per annum or 180,000 t/month.
A plant ramp-up schedule is planned over a nine- month period starting in
October 2016. The ramp-up includes three months of commissioning. It is planned
to increase the mill feed up to 210,000 t/month by July 2018 to reach 2.52
Million tonnes per annum. The open pit production rate in the R2/R3 open pit is
less than the mill capacity. An ore stockpile will be accumulated which can be
used to balance the open pit and plant schedule until such time as sufficient
ore produced by underground mining operations is available. The Renard 65 pipe
is of lower grade than Renard 2 and Renard 3 pipes and is mined as supplemental
feed to the underground operation once the R2/R3 open pit is exhausted. Waste
rock mined from R65 will also be used as underground backfill material and the
Renard 65 pit will act as a water catchment basin to collect surface runoff
water. Mining of the R2/R3 open pit commenced in March 2015 and will conclude in
April 2018. 
Initial production blasting in the Renard 2 pipe on 290L is
scheduled to start in August 2017, at a modest production rate with the
commencement of drawcone blasting. Production blasting in the first stope on
290L will be initiated in November 2017, with total production tonnage forecast
to reach 60,000 tonnes that month. The tonnage will then gradually increase of
15,000 tonnes each month until May 2018 when it will reach 150,000 tonnes. It is
anticipated that the full production rate of 180,000 tonnes (6,000 tonnes per
day) will be achieved in June 2018. Generally, each stope will provide between
1,000 tonnes per day and 2,000 tonnes per day in order to maintain a good
ore/backfill interaction to optimize recovery and dilution factors. 
The underground production schedule has been designed to
coordinate with the open pit production schedule so that the mill feed continues
at the full rate of 6,000 tonnes per day during the transition period from the
completion of the open pit through the build-up to full production from
underground. 
Underground production will continue from Q3-2017 until early
2029 for a total mine life of 14 years. For the Renard 2 pipe, the 290L mining
area will be completed in Q1-2021, the 470L area in Q2-2023, the 590L in 2025,
and the final 710L area in 2028. The R3 pipe has been scheduled in 2026 and 2027
during the transition of the production from the R2-710 zone towards R4. Due to
its small body shape and confined design, the highest planned rate for Renard 3
is 3,000 tonnes per day. The first production from R4 starts in 2027 and
continues to the end of the mine life in early 2029. 
Mineral Processing and Diamond Recovery 
The process flow sheet was developed by Stornoway based on the
following key aspects: 

 
 
 • 
 The material characteristics observed, and data
 obtained, from the treatment of underground samples from Renard 2, Renard
 3 and Renard 4 in Stornoway's Lagopede bulk sample plant; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Specific unit operation test work; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Conventional diamond processing techniques as
 successfully employed in the diamond industry; 
D-26 

 
 
 • 
 Liberation effectiveness with focus on diamond
 breakage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Circuit simplicity; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Cost effectiveness. 
To optimize footprint and capital costs, the diamond process
plant design has a single process line for comminution and ore preparation.
Capacity considerations dictate that two (2) DMS circuits for concentration and
four (4) lines for fines dewatering are required. All process equipment
including storage bins and materials handling equipment is housed within a
heated building, heated transfer towers or heated conveyor galleries. 
The process plant design capacity is 2.16 Million tonnes per
annum (dry solids basis). The plant overall utilization is estimated to be 78%,
equivalent to an operating time of 6,833 hours per year or 315 tonnes per hour
and 6,000 tonnes per day. Stornoway expects to increase the plant throughput to
323 tonnes per hour, already within initial plant equipment capacity, and
increase the plant availability to 83.5% by optimizing plant maintenance
sequences. Taking the aforementioned into consideration, by July 2018, Stornoway
expects the plant will operate at a throughput of 7,000 tonnes per day at an
overall plant utilization of 83.5% . Once the plant achieves sustainable
nameplate throughput, further optimization work will be conducted focusing on
liberation, diamond breakage and increasing the overall plant utilization. The
ore processing system will liberate, concentrate and recover diamonds from 45 mm
to 1 mm. 
Liberation design will use stage crushing where each crusher
will operate with a large crushing gap to protect against potential diamond
breakage. ROM material will be crushed, washed and sized at various stages to
produce -45 mm ore, before all liberated diamonds are recovered within either a
DMS or LDR concentration process. All rejected material larger than 6 mm from
these processes is re-crushed within a HPGR crusher to maximize the liberation
of trapped diamonds. The HPGR product is then returned to the scrubber circuit
to wash and de-agglomeratethe HPGR product. The HPGR promotes interparticle
crushing used for tertiary crushing and is the principal diamond liberator
generating a product size of 60% smaller than 6 mm. The majority of the unwanted
fines (-1 mm) are separated from the ore in these circuits and then pumped to
the thickening circuit for dewatering. 
A surge bin with a capacity of 240 tonnes decouples the DMS
from the ore preparation circuit. The process plant will produce a DMS and LDR
concentrate which will be treated in a secure diamond recovery facility that
uses diamond differentiation techniques based on magnetic, X-ray, laser Raman
and ultra-violet technologies with hand sorting as final de-falsing step to
produce a nominally 98% diamond product. 
Final diamond recovery is achieved by hand sorting diamonds
from waste in a secure glove box, located within the sorthouse in the recovery
plant. The diamonds will be chemically cleaned before preliminary valuation and
export. The diamond plant is expected to have a diamond recovery efficiency of
not less than 97% by mass and 99% by value of liberated diamonds. 
Security is a key element of the process plant design given the
high value and volume of the final diamond product. A security management system
to detect, deter and reduce the possibility of diamond theft in conjunction with
an automated diamond recovery process is part of the design. 
The following facilities are included in the plant design: 

 
 
 • 
 Main plant office, control room and electrical
 rooms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Recovery plant office, control room and storage
 room 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Security offices, access control and search
 rooms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Metallurgical laboratory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Air compressor area 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Mid-size maintenance workshop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Diamond cleaning facility 
D-27 

 
 
 • 
 Diamond stock room 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Diamond valuation room 
Table 1.15: Main Plant 3D Modal 

 
Project Infrastructure 
The Renard Diamond Mine surface and underground infrastructure
are currently under construction.
On Site Ground Infrastructure 
The on-site ground infrastructure required for the development
of the Renard Diamond Mine include the following: 
Water distribution system: a raw water intake has been
installed in Lake Lagopede and a pumping station was installed on the shore at
hundred metres from the lake. It is located near the accommodation camp and a
few hundred metres from the main process area. The same pumping station also
supplies the potable water treatment plant. 
Wastewater treatment plant: a wastewater treatment plant
equipped with a membrane bioreactor (MBR) treatment system has been constructed.

Potable water treatment plant. the potable water
treatment plant is installed in a container located within the emergency
vehicles garage. It houses the water treatment equipment, pumps and a small
office. 
Trench landfill: a trench landfill system with a volume
of 40,000 m³ is in operation for domestic solid waste management. 
Power plant: a power plan (comprised of seven natural
gas generators of 2050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of 1800 KW
each) was constructed on the Renard Diamond Mine site to provide power
requirements of the mine. 
D-28 

Fuel and LNG storage and regasification plant: a tank
farm was constructed to store arctic grade diesel and unleaded gasoline in
double-walled fuel tanks. An LNG storage and regasification plant was also
constructed. This facility consists of a truck offloading station, six storage
tanks and a regasification station with its ancillary. 
Explosive storage and handling area: the explosive
storage and handling area consists of storage containers for emulsion, one
detonator magazine, one packaged explosive magazine and a garage / wash bay
building. 
Service Buildings: the service buildings of the Renard
Diamond Mine are all operational and include an accommodation complex, a camp
reception complex, dormitories, emergency vehicle garage and potable water
treatment plant, a service building, a leisure building, a heavy vehicle truck
shop, light vehicle garage, workshop and warehouse, an office building. 
Telecommunication System: a single satellite dish
antenna, modems and related equipment have been installed at the mine site for
recreational use (mainly TV signal to the rooms). Voice, video conferencing and
data transmission are assured to the Renard mining site via a multi-megabit
Microwave link going through seven repeater towers. The above Microwave link
originates at the office building where MPLS connectivity to all other Stornoway
locations is provided. The airport communication systems are serviced from the
mine site by way of another multi-megabit Microwave link. This provides
surveillance of the remote airport site while it is unmanned. IP Telephone
service with QoS (Quality of Service) is installed at all site locations where
warranted for operation and/or emergency communication needs. The industrial
areas of the site (mill, power plant, garages etc.) are linked via fiber optic
cables and equipped with more robust telephone sets and cabling, where
warranted. VLANs with Firewall rules are used in order to keep recreational,
corporate, production, CCTV and other types of content isolated from each other.

On Site Underground Infrastructure 
Electrical power: electrical power will be provided
throughout the mine for drills, jumbos, fans, pumps, lighting and other
miscellaneous loads. The power will be distributed to the mine at 4.16 kV
through three primary feeders, two located in the fresh air raise (3C 250 MCM)
and the third in the ramp. All three feeders will be supplied from the power
station electrical room. A substation located on surface will be fed from the
power house electrical room containing BUS A and B and having 2000 amp capacity.
From there, power will be distributed to the mine surface facilities, including
the main intake fans. 
Ventilation system: the mine will have one main fresh
air intake, which will be a 6.5 -m diameter supported raise with services and
manway (secondary egress). Fresh air will be distributed on most levels directly
from the fresh air raise. Drill levels which are not connected to the fresh air
raise will be supplied via smaller vent raises connected to other levels with
fresh air. Air distribution within the mine will be controlled by a combination
of ventilation doors (SAS), regulators, plastic flaps and secondary fans
installed in walls. This will allow large flow coverage of the levels with the
use of auxiliary fans only locally (e.g., drill drifts). As the ramp is the
primary egress, the secondary egress from the mine will be provided via a
ladderway installed in the fresh air raise. The mine fresh air intake will be
downcast so in the case of a fire, it will always be in fresh air and provide a
safe escape route. In the rare case of a fire in or near the raise, personnel
will report to the nearest refuge station. 
Water pipelines: process water is required underground
for drilling, dust suppression, and wash-down of equipment and rock faces for
geology and mining. Process water will be supplied from the project process
water distribution system on surface, and will be fed underground through 151 mm
(6") pipelines in the fresh air raise and 102 mm (4") in the ramp. Provisions
are made for water recirculation to reduce water consumption and water
treatment. Potable water for underground use will be provided using a 51 mm (2")
line in the fresh air raise. 
Dewatering system: a four-stage dewatering system is
planned for the underground mine. Main sumps and pumping stations will be
located on 290L, 470L, 590L and 710L, with water pumped from the lower pump
station being rehandled at the upper station. It is anticipated that
approximately 30% of the mine water inflows will be intercepted and contained at
290L, 470L and 590L as mining progresses deeper. Consequently, the 710L lower
pumping station has been designed for 1960 m3/day (360 USgpm) while the 290L,
470L and 590L upper stations will be capable of pumping the full predicted flow
of 2,725 m3/day (500 USgpm). All pump stations will have two pump arrangements
installed, one operational and the second on standby for maintenance. A gravity
drainage system will be established whereby drainage holes will be drilled to connect the levels
and channel mine water down to the sump on the nearest level. 
D-29 

Communication system: the communication system for the
underground operation will be installed in most tunnels and uses coaxial cable
with modems, antennas and amplifiers. The system will be capable of transmitting
data and voice, as well as high speed internet, telephone and
equipment/personnel tracking. In addition, conventional telephone service will
be provided to the refuge stations, maintenance facilities and fueling stations.

Explosive storage area: explosive storage areas include
three excavations: the explosive truck parking, the explosive magazine and the
detonator magazine. Three explosive storage areas are planned to provide
explosives underground, all located near the Renard 2 production horizons. The
main magazines will be located off the ramp close to surface, the second set at
the entrance of the 390 drill level, and the third one at the same location on
the 620 drill level. The explosive magazines have been designed to store 40
containers for a total capacity of 60,000 kg of emulsion and some packaged
explosives. 
Underground fuel bays: in addition to a surface fuelling
facility, a fuelling system to deliver fuel underground through a pipeline will
be installed. Underground fuel bays will be constructed on all main production
levels: 290L, 470L, 590L and 710L. Each fuel bay will be equipped with a
20,000-litre receiving tank and dispensing equipment. The transfer of fuel
underground will be done through a 25-mm diameter piping system on a batch
basis, and will be fully instrumented to ensure safe operation. 
Refuge Stations: a total of 14 refuge stations will be
located at various strategic locations throughout the mine according to Québec's
regulations (15 min walk or 1000 m). 
Offsite Infrastructure 
Renard Airport: the airstrip for the Renard Diamond Mine
is owned and operated by Stornoway with chartered aircrafts for its exclusive
needs. The reference aircraft for the design of the runway is the DASH 8, Series
300 with a capacity of 50 passengers. The airport terminal is a two storey
building, erected on site from an engineered wood structure. It includes an
office for the airport operator, toilets and a general waiting area. A service
shed, also built from an engineered wood structure, houses the generators and
de-icing equipment. Jet fuel and diesel are stored in double-walled tanks. 
Road Access: land access to the Renard Diamond Mine is
provided by the extension of provincial highway Route 167 (built by the
Ministère des Transport du Québec) and the Renard mining road (built by
Stornoway). This road infrastructure affords year-round access linking the
project to the municipalities of Mistissini and Chibougamau. The Route 167
Extension was constructed to MTQ standards and is a two- lane gravel-topped road
with two-lane bridges and a design speed limit of 70 km/h, while the mining road
is a two-lane gravel topped Class III road with one-lane bridges and a design
speed limit of 50 km/h. 
Processed Kimberlite Containment Facility 
The PKC facility is the long-term storage facility for the PK
generated during operations. The facility has a total footprint area of about 72
hectares (ha) and is planned to store 44.8 megatonnes (Mt) of PK (23 Mm3 of PK)
representing the total Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources of the Renard
Diamond Mine for a long term life of mine that could reach 19 years. 
The site, located in the Canadian subarctic, is permafrost-free
and of low seismicity. The PKC facility is located on top of a watershed, which
generally drains towards the processing plant located to the southwest, thus
facilitating water management. Geotechnical testing carried out to date
classifies the PK as well-graded sand with some gravel to gravelly sand with
some low plastic or non-plastic fines. Of concern is the potential plasticity of
the PK; therefore the PKC facility was designed based on the potential undrained
behaviour of the PK. Geochemical testing carried out to date showed that the PK
and waste rock release low concentration of dissolved constituents; therefore,
the PK and mine waste rock are classified as low risk materials. Furthermore,
the waste rock is considered to be Category I and is suitable for use as a construction material without
restriction. Geotechnical and geochemical testing of the PK will be performed
throughout the development of the PKC facility. 
D-30 

The design objective of the PKC facility is that it receives
all materials generated by the processing plant at all times such that neither
mining nor processing operations are adversely affected. The design, including
development and operating plans, has been developed in consideration of the
expected variability of the PK and in consideration of the facility having a
high consequence of failure as per the 2013 Dam Safety Guidelines published by
the Canadian Dam Safety Guidelines. The PK will be dewatered at the processing
plant and trucked to the PKC facility. The facility will be developed throughout
operations as a stacked facility with an external slope configuration of 3H: 1V.
Placement of the erosion protection layer on the exterior of the PKC facility
will occur during operations, thereby progressively closing the facility during
its development. No water will be allowed to pond within the PKC facility. 
The PKC facility includes material placement zones (nominally
compacted zone, engineered filled zone, and PK waste zone), a starter berm, a
containment berm, an access ramp to allow haulage of PK, as well as a water
management system, including internal drainage elements (rockfill blanket and
foundation rock drains), a slope drainage channel for the access ramp, and a
series of ditches and sumps around the perimeter of the facility. The engineered
fill zone corresponds to the outer shell of the PKC facility and provides
sufficient material strength to ensure stability of the facility. This zone will
be constructed on a prepared foundation and placed as an engineered fill. The
nominally compacted fill zone corresponds to the internal portion of the PKC
facility. This zone is built with PK material and provides PK storage capacity
into which the material will be deposited with nominal compaction control
measures. During processing plant commissioning and early operations, the PK is
expected to have higher water content than for the duration of operations. The
PK waste zone contains PK with excessively high water contents requiring the
construction of the containment berm to separate the PK waste from both the
engineered and nominally compacted fill zones. A rockfill embankment, namely the
starter berm, will be constructed prior to the deposition of PK to allow for the
deposition of PK with high water content. The starter berm will be placed on the
interior limit of the engineered fill zone. 
The PK is expected to be variable over the life of mine; this
will affect its geotechnical behaviour. The key parameter for the development of
the PKC facility is the water content of the PK. The PK hauled and placed in the
PKC facility is expected to be several percentage points above the geotechnical
optimum water content. Mechanical reworking of the PK to dry it to enable the
required compaction within the engineered fill zone is expected to be required.
The facility development and PK management plans are developed with this in
mind. 
PK is an erodible material. Therefore, the crest of the
facility will be sloped and crowned to promote drainage of surface water and
precipitation towards water collection systems. The placement of the erosion
protection layer on the external slopes will be concurrent with PKC facility
development. This is consistent with the progressive closure concept aimed to
provide environmental, financial and operational benefits for the mine. For
facility closure, the PKC facility pile will be contoured and surfaced to mimic
the surrounding landforms. 
The conditions in the foundation and deposited PK will be
monitored during the development of the PKC facility and into the closure
period. The geotechnical instrumentation program includes the installation and
the monitoring of piezometers (measurement of phreatic surface and porewater
pressures within the PK), thermistors (temperature measurement within the PK),
and survey monuments (displacement measurement of the PK). 
Capital and Operating Costs 
In November 2015, Stornoway undertook a re-baselining exercise
for the CAPEX on the basis of the project's then percentage of construction
completion. The re-baselining exercise resulted in a shortened overall
construction schedule showing a 5-month improvement in the scheduled date of
Commencement of Commercial Production from May 29, 2017 to December 31, 2016.

As a result of the November 2015 re-baselining exercise, the
estimate of CAPEX to complete the construction of the project to the date of
Commencement of Commercial Production has been estimated at $775.4 million,
including contingencies of $57.5 million and an escalation allowance of $25.3
million. A portion of the 2017 mine development costs and associated G&A
costs that would have been incurred during the construction phase of the project under the initial construction schedule was transferred
to the 2017 sustaining capital. CAPEX is estimated at an accuracy of -13% and
+17%. See Table 1.16. 
D-31 

Table 1.16: Estimate of Capital Costs 

 
 Site
 Preparation & General 
 $ 45.1 
 
 Mining 
 $
 57.1 
 
 Mineral processing
 plant 
 $
 137.7 
 
 Onsite utilities
 and infrastructures 
 $
 111.1 
 
 Network and
 Distribution 
 $
 15.9 
 
 Offsite utilities
 and infrastructures 
 $
 0.3 
 
 Pre-production and
 Ramp-up 
 $
 88.5 
 
 Project indirect
 costs 
 $
 153.9 
 
 Professional
 Services 
 $
 44.6 
 
 Construction
 indirect costs 
 $
 38.5 
 
 Contingency 
 $
 57.5 
 
 Escalation 
 $
 25.3 
 
 Total including
 escalation 
 $
 775.4 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 (1) 
 Dollar amounts in $ million. Totals may not add
 due to rounding. 
As of December 31, 2015, there was $24.6 million of contingency
and $12.0 million of escalation allowance unallocated. 
Annual OPEX are defined as costs incurred once Commencement of
Commercial Production has been achieved. Based on the re-baselined project
schedule and estimated production ramp-up schedule, Commencement of Commercial
Production is scheduled to be achieved by December 31, 2016. The annual
operating costs are subdivided into open pit operations, underground mine
operations; process plant and auxiliaries; and general administrative and
infrastructure. 
The open pit operations cost estimate is based on the updated
open pit mine design and production schedule, and assumes standard open pit mine
operating procedures. Kimberlite ore will be delivered initially to the ore
stockpile or, once process plant operations start, to the surface primary
crusher upstream of the process plant. 
The underground mine operations cost estimate is based on the
updated underground mine design and production schedule and estimated from first
principles. Ore from the underground mine will be transported to the surface
using truck hauling via ramp. 
The process plant and auxiliaries cost estimate is based on the
quantity of kimberlite ore feed to the process plant. For the purpose of the
estimate, a process plant capacity of 78% plant utilization at a nameplate
capacity of 2.16 Million tonnes per annum was assumed. The operating costs were
estimated using standard manufacturer's cost data for power, fuel, equipment,
consumables and hourly maintenance costs. 
The general, administrative and infrastructure cost estimates
were derived from budgetary quotes and project actuals established in the first
year of mine operations. Labour costs are based on a salary scale and
organizational chart developed by Stornoway. 
A summary of the estimated OPEX, on a life of mine basis, for
each of the four categories described above is shown in Tables 1.17 and 1.18.

D-32 

Table 1.17: Summary of Estimated Total Life of Mine OPEX

 
 Description 
 Open Pit 
 Underground 
 Process plant 
 G&A and
 
 Infrastructure 
 
 Labour 
 64,751 
 263,780 
 188,863 
 236,559 
 
 Fuel 
 20,868 
 57,599 
 20,744 
 29,967 
 
 Explosives
 & supplies 
 8,038
 
 21,368 
 - 
 -
 
 
 Consum. &
 reagents 
 - 
 - 
 44,418 
 -
 
 
 Equipment
 
 26,099 
 143,175 
 - 
 -
 
 
 Power 
 1,982
 
 59,238 
 195,393 
 62,137 
 
 Maintenance
 
 - 
 - 
 89,438 
 24,537 
 
 Heating 
 - 
 - 
 11,980 
 - 
 
 Accommodation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 128,048 
 
 Transportation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 54,961 
 
 Other 
 4,655
 
 72,744 
 34,927 
 180,891 
 
 Totals 
 126,396 
 617,904 
 585,763 
 717,100 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 (1) 
 All figures in 2016 dollars. Totals may not add
 due to rounding. 
Total life of mine OPEX is estimated at $1,878,431,631,
excluding $168,728,602 of costs incurred prior to the attainment of Commencement
of Commercial Production and characterized as capitalized operating costs within
the CAPEX estimate. 
Table 1.18: Summary of Estimated OPEX Life of Mine Unit Cost
per Tonne Ore Processed ($) 

 
 Description 
 Open Pit 
 Underground 
 Process plant 
 G&A and
 
 Infrastructure 
 
 Labour 
 1.94
 
 7.89
 
 5.65 
 7.08
 
 
 Fuel 
 0.62
 
 1.72
 
 0.62 
 0.90
 
 
 Explosives
 & supplies 
 0.24
 
 0.64
 
 - 
 -
 
 
 Consum. &
 reagents 
 -

 -

 1.33 
 -
 
 
 Equipment
 
 0.78
 
 4.28
 
 - 
 -
 
 
 Power 
 0.06
 
 1.77
 
 5.85 
 1.86
 
 
 Maintenance
 
 -

 -

 2.68 
 0.73
 
 
 Heating 
 -

 -

 0.36 
 -
 
 
 Accommodation 
 -

 -

 - 
 3.83
 
 
 Transportation 
 -

 -

 - 
 1.64
 
 
 Other 
 0.14
 
 2.18
 
 1.04 
 5.41
 
 
 Totals 
 3.78
 
 18.49 
 17.53 
 21.45 
D-33 

Total life of mine OPEX unit cost is estimated at $56.20/tonne
processed, excluding $5.05/tonne pre-production costs characterized as
capitalized operating costs within the CAPEX estimate. 
The OPEX estimate was developed for the project with the
following key assumptions: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Power unit cost was based on an estimate of fixed and
 variable costs. Power consumption was based on the average consumption of
 each motor included in the equipment list; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pricing is based on cost of supply, manpower performance
 and compensation actualized to the fourth quarter of 2015; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 No allowance was made for contingency, escalation and
 risk relating to OPEX; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 No allowance was made for final mine closure activities
 within the OPEX estimate, other than the progressive reclamation costs of
 the PKC facility. In the project Economic Analysis, the balance of mine
 closure costs are treated as a capital cost item; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The OPEX estimate was based on from budgetary quotes and
 project actuals established in the first year of mine operations, and
 utlize a Class III estimate methodology as defined by the type and
 quantity of engineering deliverables produced to support the estimate. The
 expected order of accuracy is in the range of -15% to +15%.
 
"Sustaining Capital Costs" are capital and replacement
costs required to sustain operations against mine plan estimates, such as
maintenance of the mobile mining fleet and power plant, or deferred capital
costs occurring after the attainment of commercial production, such as the
development of the underground mine. Sustaining Capital Costs are defined
independently of the CAPEX estimate or OPEX. Annual estimates for the life of
mine are shown in Table 1.19. 
Table 1.19: Estimated Sustaining Capital and Capital
Replacement Costs (in $M) 

 
 Description 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 2030 
 
 
 Open pit 
 1.8
 
 0.5
 
 0.7
 
 3.2
 
 1.5
 
 1.5
 
 1.3
 
 3.0
 
 2.7
 
 0.0
 
 0.0
 
 0.0
 
 0.0
 
 0.0
 
 
 Underground 
 43.7
 
 45.2
 
 27.8
 
 18.4
 
 11.8
 
 31.8
 
 5.8
 
 18.5
 
 13.6
 
 5.0
 
 0.5
 
 0.1
 
 0.1
 
 0.0
 
 
 Process plant 
 0.8
 
 1.1
 
 1.5
 
 1.1
 
 1.5
 
 1.1
 
 1.2
 
 1.1
 
 1.1
 
 1.0
 
 0.3
 
 1.0
 
 0.0
 
 0.0
 
 
 Adm. & Infra. 
 0.0
 
 0.2
 
 0.0
 
 0.7
 
 0.2
 
 0.0
 
 0.0
 
 0.2
 
 1.5
 
 0.0
 
 0.2
 
 0.0
 
 0.0
 
 0.8
 
 
 Power Plant & Airport
 
 3.8 
 1.8 
 2.0 
 0.2 
 0.5 
 1.8 
 0.9 
 0.0 
 1.8 
 0.7 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 
 Totals 
 50.1
 
 48.8
 
 32.0
 
 23.6
 
 15.4
 
 36.2
 
 9.2
 
 22.7
 
 20.7
 
 6.7
 
 0.9
 
 1.1
 
 0.1
 
 0.8
 
Diamond Market Fundamentals and Diamond Price Estimates

Rough diamonds are a mined product characterised by a high
degree of non-homogeneity in terms of size, colour, quality and shape. Rough
diamonds are not exchange traded and have no terminal market. Rather, they are
sold directly by mine producers to a wide range of clients within an industry
pipeline that funnels their transformation into polished diamond jewellery
through cutting and polishing, polished diamond wholesaling, diamond jewellery
manufacturing, and end-product distribution to the retail markets of the world.

Most mine producers will undertake the sorting of their rough
diamond production into parcels of like characteristics so as to maximise their
attractiveness and value prior to sale. Sales mechanisms include contracted
sales with a regular list of qualified rough market buyers, tenders and
auctions, offtakes with retail end-users, and downstream beneficiation
partnerships designed to capture value-add. Sales are typically transacted on a
cash basis in United States dollars. 
Diamond pricing is set by a mine producer based on a regularly
adjusted price book, or set on the basis of an achieved price achieved in a
tender or auction sale. No benchmark price list for rough prices exist, although
several rough market agencies, such as RoughPrices.com, publish a rough
price index based on proprietary transactional data and public data compiled
from the international Kimberley Process and producer country customs agencies.
D-34 

Stornoway intends to sell the diamond production from the
Renard Diamond Mine in 10 tender sales per year in Antwerp, Belgium. To this
end, Stornoway's wholly owned subsidiary FCDC has entered into a sales and
marketing agreement with the diamond industry broker and rough distributor
Bonas-Couzyn, which will act as sales commissionaire and tender agent for arm's
length market sales. Sales of diamonds under the Renard Streaming Agreement for
the Forward Sale of Diamonds will be undertaken by Bonas-Couzyn, on an undivided
basis, on behalf of FCDC and the Renard Buyers. 
In most diamond supply and demand forecasts, future rough
diamond supply is assessed on the basis of current and future production plans
at the major producing mines. These supply projections are generally robust, as
most of the world's major diamond mines are operating on a steady-state basis or
transitioning to lower production rates as they age, and it typically takes
between 8 and 12 years to find and develop a new diamond mine. 
Bain and Company forecast a potential maximum of 20 million
carats of new diamond production between 2013 and 2019 on the basis that all
currently known sources of rough supply are brought to the market. This yields a
forecast compounded annual growth rate of 4.5% to 5.5% in carat terms. 
Diamond demand forecasting (expressed as either demand for
rough diamonds in the cutting centres or demand for polished diamonds for
diamond jewelry manufacture) is a more complex calculation based on, amongst
other things: 

 
 
 • 
 long-term gross domestic product (GDP) growth
 forecasts in the main consumer markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 diamond jewelry consumer growth trends in
 developing markets; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 short-term inventory draw-down or re-stocking
 trends within the diamond pipeline, often linked to levels of bank debt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 The impact of diamond recycling or synthetic
 diamond substitution on polished diamond demand. 
The principal difference between published diamond demand
forecasts is whether they are based solely on the first of these elements and
assume steady state diamond demand linked to gross domestic product (GDP) growth
or whether they also take into account the second and third of these elements,
and allow for market changes outside of gross domestic product (GDP) growth and
short- term inventory factors. 
2015 was a year of volatility in the world diamond markets
which saw price declines for both rough and polished diamonds in the face of
moderate sales growth for diamond jewellery in the United States market, flat or
negative growth in China, and low profitability for those in the transformative,
middle part of the diamond pipeline (Bain and Company, Antwerp World Diamond
Centre, 2015. The Global Diamond Industry 2015 – Growth perspectives amid
short-term challenges). High stocking levels of polished diamonds along with
high debt levels in the cutting centers created the impression of a short term
over-supply of rough diamonds and low sell-through of polished diamond
jewellery. 
On a longer term basis, Bain and Company forecast a global
compounded annual growth rate in rough diamond demand of 3% to 4% to 2030, with
a period of supply balance between 2015 and 2019 as the new projects come into
production. The differential between a long term positive demand outlook and
negative supply outlook prompts the common adoption in the diamond mining
industry of a real terms price escalation factor on rough diamond prices for the
forward planning and valuation purposes, with real terms escalators of between
1% and 4% common. Stornoway has typically chosen to represent forward diamond
prices based on a combination of "spot" diamond market pricing and a forward
escalation factor of 2.5% compounded annual growth rate in the base case,
applied for a period of 10 years, with sensitivities of 0% and 5%. 
Between May 9, 2011 and May 13, 2011, the Valuation Samples
were valued in Antwerp, Belgium under the supervision of WWW IDC. WWW IDC also
valued diamond parcels from the Lynx and Hibou kimberlite dykes. WWW IDC is an
internationally recognized independent diamond valuation and advisory service to
diamond mining and exploration companies. In Canada, WWW IDC, through
Diamonds International Canada (DICAN) Ltd., serves as the valuator for the
Government of the Northwest Territories and the Government of Ontario.
D-35 

In addition to performing its own valuation, WWW IDC showed the
Renard 2, 3 and 4 diamond samples to four other experienced rough diamond
companies in order to obtain additional market based valuations (an "open
market" valuation). In each case WWW IDC's own valuation was higher than the
average of the five independent valuations and the average was used by WWW IDC
to construct a diamond price model, with "High" and "Minimum" sensitivities
based on alternate interpretations of diamond quality and potential value.
Diamond price models represent the true diamond price that might reasonably be
expected for a kimberlite ore body based on standard commercial-scale recoveries
of all diamond size classes. They differ from the achieved diamond valuation
price principally through a correction which is applied for the absence of large
diamonds which are typically under-represented in exploration scale samples. The
choice of "Minimum" and "High" to describe the sensitivity limits is deliberate:
in WWW IDC's view it is highly unlikely that an actual diamond price achieved
for each kimberlite ore body upon production would fall below the "Minimum"
sensitivity, but it is possible that the actual diamond price achieved may be
higher than the "High" sensitivity, which is not a maximum price. 
At the time of the May 2011 open market valuation, WWW IDC
recommended the adoption of a single diamond price model for the Renard 2 and
Renard 3 valuation samples given the similarity of the diamonds in terms of
diamond qualities and size distribution. 
A separate diamond price model was adopted for the Renard 4
Valuation Sample given its apparently finer distribution of diamond sizes and
marginally different diamond quality characteristics. However, independent
studies on diamond breakage and plant performance during the processing of the
Renard bulk samples have indicated that the size distribution of the Renard 4
sample was most likely been modified during its recovery. For this reason, an
alternate diamond price model for the Renard 4 sample has been adopted for
planning purposes since the May 2011 valuation exercise which assumes a diamond
size distribution equal to the average Renard 2-Renard 3 size distribution. 
The collection of a bulk sample of diamonds from the Renard 65
kimberlite in 2013 revealed a diamond population with a markedly different
assortment of diamond qualities compared to any of the other kimberlite pipes.
Accordingly, individual price models have been adopted for each kimberlite pipe
at the Renard Diamond Mine since this time on the basis that the small
differences in diamond quality and size distribution that can be observed
between the pipes should be treated as real. Updated diamond valuation exercises
were conducted on this basis by WWW IDC in March 2013 and March 2014. For the
Renard 2, 3 and 4 valuation samples, the result of each WWW IDC re-valuation was
used to adjust the average valuations obtained in the May 2011 exercise from the
five independent valuators, and a revised diamond price model with High and
Minimum sensitivities generated. The Lynx and Hibou samples were not re-valued
in 2013 and 2014 and the proposed mine plan for Renard presently does not
include these kimberlite bodies. At the time of the most recent WWW IDC
re-valuation in March 2014, base case diamond price models of US$197/carat were
calculated for Renard 2, US$157/carat for Renard 3, US$155/carat for Renard 4
and US$187/carat for Renard 65. 
A tracking of world average rough diamond prices by
RoughPrices.com, based on a market assortment maintained by WWW IDC, indicates a
-19% drop in average diamond pricing between March 2014 and March 2016.
Stornoway has applied this market adjustment to the March 2014 WWW IDC diamond
price models to arrive at an estimate of "Spot" diamond pricing for each Renard
kimberlite pipe for use in the Renard Diamond Mine's economic analysis and the
declaration of the project's Mineral Reserves of the 2016 Technical Report. 
D-36 

Table 1.20: Estimated Diamond Price Adjustments, March 2014
to March 2016 

 
 
 
 Estimated Market Price 
 Adjusted Price Estimates 
 
 
 
 March 2014 Diamond Price 
 Adjustment March 2014 to 
 March 2016: "Spot" Price 
 
 
 Body 
 Model(1)
 (US$/carat) 
 March 2016 
 Models(1)
 (US$/carat) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 2 
 $197 
 -19% 
 $160 
 
 
 (High $222, Min $178) 
 
 (High $181, Min $145) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 3 
 $157 
 -19% 
 $128 
 
 
 (High $192, Min $146) 
 
 (High $156, Min $119) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 4 
 $106 ($155)(2) 
 -19% 
 $86 ($126)(2) 
 
 
 (High $174, Min $100) 
 
 (High $141, Min $81) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 65 
 $187 
 -19% 
 $152 
 
 
 (High $190, Min $160) 
 
 (High $155, Min $130)

 
 Note: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) 
 
 As determined WWW IDC at a +1 DTC sieve size cut off.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 As determined by applying the world average rough price
 index of roughrices.com to the March 2014 price models, at a +1 DTC sieve
 size cut-off. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 
 Should the Renard 4 diamond population prove to have a
 size distribution equal to the average of Renard 2 and 3, WWW IDC have
 estimated that a base case diamond price model of US$155 per carat would
 apply based on March 2014 pricing, equivalent to US$126 per carat on a
 market price adjusted basis to March 2016. 
Economic Analysis and Sensitivities 
Stornoway completed a financial analysis for the Renard Diamond
Mine, reflected in the 2016 Technical Report. The project economic analysis
incorporates the estimated life of mine diamond production profile based on the
updated Probable Mineral Reserves, diamond valuation and escalation estimates,
CAPEX , OPEX, Sustaining Capital Costs, salvage value, working capital, closure
and reclamation costs, taxation, costs under the Mecheshoo Agreement, royalties,
the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds, and the
project's financial parameter assumptions. 
The significant financial assumptions affecting the financial
analysis of the project include: 
Process plant throughput: for the purpose of the
economic analysis, by mid-2018, Stornoway has assumed a plant capacity of 2.5
Million tonnes per annum. See "Renard Diamond Mine – Mineral Processing and
Diamond Recovery". 
Diamond selling prices: "spot" diamond valuation
estimates used for revenue forecasting are based on a 19% estimated market
adjustment to the March 2014 valuation of the Renard 2, 3, 4 and 65 valuation
samples by WWW IDC. 
Diamond escalation rate: diamond prices have been
assumed to increase by 2.5% per annum in real terms (with sensitivities ranging
from 0% to 5% in real terms), from January 1, 2016 until the end of 2028. 
Exchange rate: the C$/US$ exchange rate is used to
convert revenue from diamond sales into Canadian dollars and to calculate a
delivered certain fuel price to site. The base case exchange rate assumption for
financial modelling is 1.35 C$/US$ flat. All operating cost estimates are in
Canadian dollars. 
Energy: the delivered diesel price used in the model is
$1/litre, and the delivered LNG price is $0.63/m³ which includes transportation
costs to site, federal excise tax and provincial fuel tax. Power generation is
via a combination of LNG and diesel power plant located on site. The cost of
generating power is therefore dependent on mix between LNG and diesel and the fuel price assumption for both. The
average mix of LNG and diesel used to generate power over the life of mine is
approximately 88% and 12% respectively. The total energy cost (power and fuels)
represents 24.5% of total life of mine OPEX. 
D-37 

Real dollar terms: project cash flows have been
calculated in real dollar terms (constant dollar terms). Where nominal cash
flows have been calculated for comparable purposes, a general inflation factor
of 2% per year has been applied to operating costs, revenues, deferred and
sustaining capital expenditures, as well as closure costs and salvage values.
The general inflation factor used is consistent with the monetary policy adopted
by the Bank of Canada and the federal government at keeping total CPI inflation
at 2% with a control range of 1% to 3% around the target (Bank of Canada
Monetary Policy Report, July 2011). 
Project Financing: on July 8, 2014 Stornoway completed a
series of financing transactions, consisting of the issuance of common shares
and warrants, convertible debentures, a diamond streaming agreement, a senior
loan agreement, cost over-run facilities and an equipment finance facility.
Proceeds from the financing transactions have been used and are being used for
the construction of the Renard Diamond Mine, and for working capital during the
construction period, including interest and financing expenses. It is
anticipated that proceeds from the financing transactions mentioned above will
be sufficient to meet Stornoway's capital requirements to the Commencement of
Commercial Production at the project. Net present valuations are presented net
of all royalties, costs incurred under the Mecheshoo Agreement, the effective
revenue impairment associated with the Renard Streaming Agreement for the
Forward Sale of Diamonds, and are presented on an unlevered basis. 
Life of mine gross revenue from diamond sales is estimated at
$5,565 million in real dollar terms. Life of mine OPEX is estimated at $1,878
million in real terms to process 33.4 Mt of ore and produce 22.3 million diamond
carats. The average life of mine operating cost is $56.20/t (US$41.63/t) of ore
or $84.37/carat (US$62.50/ct) produced with the average annual profile
presented. 
An unlevered after-Tax NPV (7%) is estimated at $974 million,
and $1,349 million on a pre-tax basis, in real dollar terms. Given the advanced
nature of project construction, estimates of internal rate of return and payback
period are not considered meaningful. 
Table 1.21: Project
Valuation(1)(2)(3) 

 
 
 Pre-Tax 
 After-Tax 
 
 
 NPV5% 
 $1,558
 
 $1,113 
 
 NPV7% (Base
 Case) 
 
 $1,349 
 $974 
 
 NPV8% 
 $1,258
 
 $913
 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 (1) 
 
 All quoted figures in the project economic analysis are
 quoted in Canadian $ terms unless stated otherwise. 
 
 (2) 
 
 Dollar amounts in $ million 
 
 (3) 
 
 For the purposes of the 2016 Technical Report financial
 model, net present valuations are presented net of all royalties, costs
 incurred under the Mecheshoo Agreement, the effective revenue impairment
 associated with the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of
 Diamonds, and are presented on an unlevered basis.

The project is most sensitive to estimated revenue parameters
(diamond price, exchange rate and grade) and least sensitive to estimated
operating cost metrics. The Project also shows strong sensitivity to future
diamond price growth. Stornoway's utilization of a 2.5% real terms growth factor
is consistent with well constrained rough diamond supply and demand forecasts
and industry best-practice. 
D-38 

Conclusions and Recommendations 
All elements of the project development plan, including the
remaining required infrastructure, mine design, process plant design, waste
disposal infrastructure and cost estimation, represent the current estimate for
life of mine operations. The resulting information therefore met all of the
applicable requirements for conversion of Indicated Mineral Resources to a
Probable Mineral Reserve estimate. The Probable Mineral Reserve estimate was
determined in accordance with CIM Definition Standards classification.
Considering the risks inherent in all kimberlite deposits, such as sampling for
geological continuity, diamond grade and diamond revenue determination, the
Indicated portion of the Mineral Resources is considered suitable for the
estimate of Probable Reserve. The authors of the report recommend to perform
additional work in order to reduce the uncertainties in the geomechanical and
design analysis and to continually review these analysis to ensure they remain
valid over time. They also recommend to test processed kimberlite material post
production to confirm geochemical classification in support of the processed
kimberlite facility design. There is no certainty that the 2016 Technical Report
will be realized. 
D-39 

Brucejack Gold Mine 
Project Description and Location 
The Brucejack Gold Mine (in this section also referred to as
the "Brucejack Project", the "Property" or the "Brucejack
Property") in the Brucejack Report consists of four mining leases and six
mineral claims totalling 3,304 hectares. The mining leases require annual
payments to remain in good standing and the mineral claims are in good standing
until January 31, 2027. 
The Brucejack Project is centred at approximately latitude
56°28'20"N by longitude 130°11'31"W, approximately 950 kilometres northwest of
Vancouver, 65 kilometres north- northwest of Stewart, and 21 kilometres
south-southeast of the Eskay Creek Mine. 
Pretium Resources acquired a 100% outright interest in the
Brucejack Project in December 2010, pursuant to an acquisition agreement dated
October 28, 2010 with Silver Standard. The Brucejack Project is subject to a
1.2% net smelter returns royalty in favour of Franco-Nevada on production in
excess of 503,386 ounces of gold and 17,907,080 ounces of silver. Also, on
September 15, 2015: (i) Pretium Exploration, Pretium Resources, 0890696 B.C.
Ltd., Orion Stream II and BTO entered into the Brucejack Offtake Agreement, and
(ii) Orion Stream II and BTO, as purchasers, Pretium Resources and Pretium
Exploration, as sellers, Orion Stream II, as purchaser's agent and Orion
Co-Investments II (ED) Limited, as collateral agent, entered into the Brucejack
Stream Agreement, governing the purchase of the Refined Precious Metals. See
"Description of Material Assets – The Brucejack Offtake" and "
Description of Material Assets – The Brucejack Stream". Copies of the
Brucejack Stream Agreement and the Brucejack Offtake Agreement are available on
SEDAR under Pretium Resources' issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
Summaries of the Brucejack Stream Agreement and the Brucejack Offtake Agreement
are disclosed in the annual information form of Pretium Resources dated March
30, 2017. 
Property Location Map 

 
D-40 

Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and
Physiography 
Accessibility 
The Brucejack Project is located in the Boundary Range of the
Coast Mountain Physiographic Belt along the western margin of the Intermontane
Tectonic Belt. The terrain is generally steep with local reliefs of 1000 metres
from valleys occupied by receding glaciers, to ridges at elevations of 1200
metres above sea-level. Elevations within the Brucejack Project area range from
1366 metres along Brucejack Lake to 1650 metres at the Bridge Zone. However,
within several areas, the relief is relatively low to moderate. 
Pretium Resources has completed construction of its
approximately 74 kilometre exploration access road that links the Brucejack Camp
to Highway 37 via the Knipple Glacier, Bowser Camp and Wildfire Camp. Personnel,
equipment, fuel and camp provisions are driven to a staging area on the Knipple
Glacier before being taken over the glacier to the Brucejack Camp. The area is
easily accessible by helicopter from the town of Stewart, or seasonally from the
settlement of Bell II. The flight time from Stewart is approximately 30 minutes
and slightly less from Bell II. 
Climate 
The climate is typical of north-western British Columbia with
cool, wet summers, and relatively moderate but wet winters. Annual temperatures
range from +20°C to -20°C. Precipitation is high with heavy snowfall
accumulations ranging from 10 metres to 15 metres at higher elevations and 2
metres to 3 metres along the lower river valleys. Snow packs cover the higher
elevations from October to May. The optimum field season is from late June to
mid-October. 
Local Resources and Infrastructure 
There are no local resources other than abundant water for any
drilling work. 
The nearest infrastructure is the town of Stewart,
approximately 65 kilometres to the south, which has limited supplies and
personnel. The towns of Terrace and Smithers are also located in the same
general region as the Brucejack Project. Both are directly accessible by daily
air service from Vancouver. 
The nearest railway is the Canadian National Railway Yellowhead
route, which is located approximately 220 kilometres to the southeast. This line
runs east-west and terminates at the deep water port of Prince Rupert on the
west coast of British Columbia. The most northerly ice-free shipping port in
North America, in Stewart, is accessible to store and ship concentrates. 
A high voltage, 138-kV transmission line currently services
Stewart, British Columbia and has sufficient capacity to provide power to the
Brucejack Project. BC Hydro has started engineering work on a system upgrade to
provide for the interconnection of the transmission line that will service the
Brucejack Project with the 138kv transmission line servicing the town of
Stewart. 
History and Exploration 
The exploration history of the area dates back to the 1880s
when placer gold was located at Sulphurets and Mitchell Creeks. Placer mining
was intermittently undertaken throughout the early 1900s and remained the main
focus of prospecting until the mid-1930s. 
In 1935, prospectors discovered copper-molybdenum
mineralization on the Sulphurets property in the vicinity of the Main Copper
zone, approximately six kilometres northwest of Brucejack Lake; however, these
claims were not staked until 1960. From 1935 to 1959, the area was relatively
inactive with respect to prospecting; however, it was intermittently evaluated
by a number of different parties and several small copper and gold-silver
occurrences were discovered in the Sulphurets-Mitchell Creek area. In 1960,
Granduc and Alaskan prospectors staked the main claim group covering the known
copper and gold-silver occurrences, which collectively became known as the
Sulphurets property, starting the era of modern exploration. Various
operators explored the area, and an underground program was completed on the
West Zone between 1986 and 1991 by the Newcana Joint Venture among Granduc,
Newhawk and Lacana Mining Corporation. 
D-41 

In 1999, Silver Standard acquired Newhawk and with it,
Newhawk's 60% interest and control of the Brucejack Project. In 2001, Silver
Standard acquired Black Hawk's 40% direct interest in the Brucejack Project,
resulting in 100% interest in the Brucejack Project. 
Silver Standard began initial work on the Brucejack Project in
2009 with drilling, rock-chip and channel sampling and re-sampling of historical
drill core. The 2009 program tested five zones with 37 drillholes totalling
18,000 metres. A total of 12 drillholes were targeted at what would become the
Valley of the Kings Zone (the "Valley of the Kings"). 
In 2010, Silver Standard's drill program was designed to
continue definition of the bulk tonnage mineralization as well as to determine
the nature and continuity of the high-grade mineralization observed at Valley of
the Kings. Approximately one third of the 2010 drilling targeted the Valley of
the Kings and included gold intersections of up to 5,840 g/t gold. The bulk
tonnage drilling achieved its intended goal through the definition of more than
20 Moz at Brucejack (8 Moz in Measured and Indicated and 12.5 Moz gold in
Inferred, at a 0.3 g/t AuEq cut-off; Ghaffari et al. 2011). The relatively dense
drilling from the bulk tonnage drilling program, with drill spacings of 100
metres by 100 metres to 50 metres by 50 metres, formed the basis upon which the
bulk tonnage resource model was built. Numerous high-grade intersections were
defined as part of this drilling, allowing for the initial delineation of high-
grade mineralization trends. In 2010, Silver Standard proceeded with the sale of
the Brucejack projects to Pretium Resources. 
The 2011 diamond drill program was focused specifically on
defining high grade resources. In 2011, 178 drillholes were completed totalling
72,805 metres in drillholes SU-110 to SU-288. This included 97 drillholes
(41,219 metres) that targeted the Valley of the Kings, 16 drillholes (7,471
metres) that targeted the West Zone, and 21 drillholes (7,220 metres) that
targeted the surrounding areas. The remaining drilling was focused on expansion
of Shore Zone, testing for structurally controlled high grade mineralization in
Galena Hill (now part of the Valley of the Kings) and Bridge Zones, as well as
testing new target areas. The West Zone ramp was partially dewatered in late
2011 and early 2012. A geotechnical mapping program and updated survey was
completed on the dewatered portion of the mine. 
The 2012 diamond drill program focused on defining the high
grade resource for the Valley of the Kings, specifically targeting geological
and structural features believed to be associated with high grade gold
mineralization. Diamond drilling also focused on expanding the known extents of
the Valley of the Kings Zone, both west of the Brucejack Fault and along trend
to the east of the main mineralized zone. A total of 301 drillholes were
completed, totalling 105,500 metres of drilling during the 2012 drilling
program. 
An underground exploration program commenced in 2012 which was
designed to, amongst other things, access the Valley of the Kings deposit
underground, excavate a 10,000 tonne underground bulk sample and demonstrate
continuity of the high-grade gold mineralization. The initial phase of the
underground program involved widening a portion of the historical West Zone
underground workings to five metres by five metres so that the historical West
Zone portal and underground workings can be used for access to the Valley of the
Kings with production sized mining equipment. In late December 2012, the
widening of the historical West Zone underground workings was completed and
excavation commenced of the access ramp from the West Zone workings to the
Valley of the Kings. 
The 2013 surface diamond drill program focused on further
defining the high grade resource for the Valley of the Kings as well as the
geological and structural features believed to be associated with gold
mineralization. A total of 24 surface diamond drillholes (5,200 metres) of the
37 surface drillholes (5,770 metres; drillholes SU-590 to SU-626) completed
during the 2013 drilling program were focussed on the Valley of the Kings. 
In 2013, Pretium Resources also excavated a bulk sample from
within the Valley of the Kings to further evaluate the geological interpretation
and Mineral Resource estimate. The location of the proposed bulk sample was
selected to be representative of the grade and character of the overall
mineralization of the Valley of the Kings. 
D-42 

Underground development reached the bulk sample area in May
2013 and underground drilling to support the bulk sample program began in
mid-May. A total of 409 drillholes (38,840 metres) were completed with 200 of
these drillholes (16,640 metres) testing the bulk sample area. The remainder
(209 drillholes totalling 22,200 metres) were testing targets outside of the
bulk sample area. 
The design of the bulk sample was limited by provincial
legislation to a maximum allowable bulk sample size of 10,000 tonnes. The bulk
sample was collected as a series of nominal 100 tonne rounds in underground
development. Pretium Resources elected to process the bulk sample both through a
sample tower on site and at a custom mill (Contact Mill) in Montana, United
States. The results of assaying of the samples from the sample tower provided,
in Snowden's opinion, an unacceptable degree of variation in the results. 
In 2014, exploration focused on resource definition in the
Valley of the Kings with both surface and underground exploration. 
The 2014 surface drill program consisted of infill drilling,
exploration drilling at depth and condemnation drilling. The infill drill
program, comprising 5,818 metres in three holes including 14 wedge holes, was
successful in confirming the grade and continuity of Indicated and Inferred gold
mineralization in an area defined by the 2013 Mineral Resource estimate block
model. 
The exploration drilling at depth, which consisted of four deep
drill holes comprising 3,507 metres, was successful in confirming the continuity
of gold mineralization in the Valley of the Kings below the area defined by the
2013 Mineral Resource estimate. Condemnation drilling for mine site
infrastructure consisted of 25 drill holes comprising 2,679 metres. 
Underground exploration in the Valley of the Kings has
continued to date with mapping and sampling coinciding with the advance of
ramping and vent raise excavation. 
Geological Setting 
The Brucejack Property is located on the eastern limb of the
broad McTagg anticlinorium, the northern closure of the Stewart-Iskut
culmination. As a result, rocks on the Brucejack Property are tilted, as well as
folded, and generally display a progressive younging towards the east. Volcanic
arc-related rocks of the Triassic Stuhini Group form the core of the
anticlinorium, and are successively replaced outwards by volcanic arc-related
rocks of the Lower Jurassic Hazleton Group and clastic basin-fill sedimentary
rocks of the Middle to Upper Jurassic Bowser Lake Group. 
Geology on the Brucejack Property can generally be
characterized as a northerly-trending, broadly arcuate, concave-westward
structural-stratigraphic belt of variably altered rocks. This belt is bisected
on the western side of the Brucejack Property by a prominent topographic
lineament, the Brucejack Fault. This belt is characterised by a broad band of
variably but generally intensely quartz-sericite-pyrite altered rocks of up to
several hundred metres or more across, and approximately five kilometres in
strike extent. The quartz-sericite-pyrite alteration typically contains between
two and 20% pyrite, and, depending on the alteration intensity, can preclude
protolith recognition. Most of the defined mineral resources on the Brucejack
Property are located within the intensely altered zone. 
Mineralization 
Gold (± silver) mineralization is hosted in predominantly
sub-vertical vein, vein stockwork, and subordinate vein breccia systems of
variable intensity, throughout the alteration band. The stockwork systems
display both parallel and discordant relationships to stratigraphy. The
stockwork systems are relatively continuous along strike (several tens of metres
to several hundreds of metres). 
Several mineralization zones have been explored to varying
degrees, including (from south to north): Bridge Zone, Valley of the Kings Zone,
West Zone, Gossan Hill, Shore Zone, and SG Zone. There are numerous relatively
unexplored mineralization showings within the alteration band across the
Brucejack Property that are between the main mineralization zones, highlighting
the exceptional exploration potential of the Brucejack Property. 
D-43 

High grade gold mineralization in the Valley of the Kings, the
current focus of the Project, occurs in a series of west-northwest (and
subordinate west-southwest) trending sub-vertical corridors of structurally
reoriented vein stockworks and vein breccias. Stockwork mineralization displays
both discordant and concordant relationships to the volcanic pile stratigraphy.
Gold is typically present as gold-rich electrum within deformed quartz-carbonate
(±adularia?) vein stockworks, veins, and subordinate vein breccias, with grades
ranging up to 41,582 g/t gold and 27,725 g/t silver over 0.5 m. 
Recent underground exploration carried out as a part of the
bulk sample program confirmed the location of corridors of stockwork-style
mineralization and the lithological contacts in this part of the deposit (within
the Valley of the Kings). In addition the work resulted in the recognition of
sub-vertical north-northeasterly trending deformed, curviplanar, and sheared
quartz-carbonate veins containing abundant visible electrum. These structures
are interpreted as structurally-controlled fluid conduits that were active
during development of the porphyry system and associated volcanic pile in the
early Jurassic, and which were reactivated during Cretaceous deformation. 
The Valley of the Kings deposit is currently defined over 1,200
metres in east-west extent, 600 metres in north-south extent, and 650 metres in
depth. The West Zone appears to form the northern limb of an anticline that
links up with the Valley of the Kings in the south, and the southern limb of a
syncline that extends further to the north. This zone, which is currently
defined over 590 metres along its northwest strike, 560 metres across strike,
and down to 650 metres in depth, is open to the northwest, southeast, and at
depth to the northeast. 
Mineralized Zones 
The current resources as presented by Pretium Resources in its
annual information form for the year ended December 31, 2016 are comprised of
two different zones on the Brucejack Project, being the Valley of the Kings Zone
and the West Zone. 
Valley of the Kings Zone 
Exploration drilling by Silver Standard (2009, 2010) and
Pretium Resources (2011 to present), as well as surface mapping, has been
successful in outlining a series of corridors of high grade mineralization
associated with deformed quartz stockworks and intense quartz-sericite-pyrite
alteration in an east-west trending and east-southeast plunging tight syncline
developed in almost the full sequence of lower Hazelton Group rocks. 
The Valley of the Kings mineralized zone trends approximately
west-northwest to east- southeast. Its orientation mirrors that of Electrum
Ridge, a pronounced topographic feature near the southern margin of the zone,
and drilling to date has extended its strike to over 800 metres. The zone is up
to 150 metres wide and was originally thought to be bound to the west by the
Brucejack Fault. Recent drilling in the current 2012 drill program, together
with the presence of significant intervals of gold mineralization, in the
Waterloo Zone, indicates that the Valley of the Kings continues west across the
fault, thereby making the zone open to the west, as well as to the east and at
depth. 
High-grade gold and silver mineralization within the Valley of
the Kings occurs as electrum, which is generally hosted in deformed
quartz-carbonate and quartz-adularia veins and vein stockworks. While quartz
veining and stockworks are common throughout the zone, the majority of gold
intersections are confined to corridors within a zone 75 metres to 100 metres
wide on the southern limb of the syncline. The orientation of these corridors is
subparallel to the fold axis. Gold to silver ratios within the Valley of the
Kings are typically 2:1 or higher. Variations in this ratio, which could be a
function of thermal gradients developed at the time of mineralization, are
suggested by a visible increase in the proportion of silvery electrum (at the
expense of more gold-coloured electrum) with a concomitant increase in the
proportion of vein- hosted adularia towards the eastern parts of the zone.
Additional precious metals-bearing minerals found in the Valley of the Kings,
typically in trace quantities, include silver sulphides, acanthite, pyrargyrite
and tetrahedrite, and associated with base metal-bearing sulphides include
sphalerite and galena. 
Low grade bulk tonnage mineralization, associated with
disseminated anhedral pyrite, forms a halo within the altered rocks, surrounding
the high grade mineralization corridors. 
D-44 

West Zone 
The West Zone gold-silver deposit is hosted by a northwesterly
trending band of intensely altered Lower Jurassic latitic to trachyandesitic
volcanic and subordinate sedimentary rocks, as much as 400 metres to 500 metres
thick, which passes between two more competent bodies of hornblende plagioclase
hornblende phyric flows. The stratified rocks dip moderately to steeply to the
northeast and are intensely altered, particularly in the immediate area of the
precious metals mineralization. The West Zone appears to form the northern limb
of an anticline that links up with the Valley of the Kings to the south, and the
southern limb of a syncline that extends further to the north. 
The West Zone deposit itself comprises at least 10 quartz veins
and mineralized quartz stockwork ore shoots, the longest of which has a strike
length of approximately 250 metres and a maximum thickness of about around 6
metres. Most mineralized shoots have vertical extents that are greater than
their strike lengths. Veins and stockworks in this zone display clear evidence
of post-mineral ductile and brittle deformation. The West Zone is open along
strike to the southeast, and at depth to the northeast. 
In terms of hydrothermal alteration, the West Zone is marked by
a central silicified zone that passes outwards to a zone of sericite ± quartz ±
carbonate and then an outer zone of chlorite ± sericite ± carbonate. The
combined thickness of the alteration zones across the central part of the
deposit is between 100 metres and 150 metres. 
Gold in the West Zone occurs principally as electrum in quartz
veins and is associated with, in decreasing order of abundance, pyrite,
sphalerite, chalcopyrite, and galena. Besides being found with gold in electrum,
silver occurs in tetrahedrite, pyrargyrite, polybasite and, rarely, stephanite
and acanthite. Gangue mineralogy of the veins is dominated by quartz, with
accessory adularia, albite, sericite, and minor carbonate and barite. The
increased abundance of silver in the West Zone may suggest that this zone was
formed down temperature gradient from the Valley of the Kings. 
Drilling 
The input data for the West Zone Mineral Resource estimate
consisted of 756 drillholes (63,208 metres) including 439 underground drillholes
(24,688 metres), 269 historical surface drillholes (21,321 metres) and 48
surface drillholes (17,199 metres) completed since 2009. 
The input data for the Valley of the Kings Mineral Resource
estimate comprised 932 drillholes totalling 218,238 metres. The drilling
consisted of: 

 
 
 • 
 9 historic drillholes (579 metres); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 490 surface drillholes drilled between 2009 and
 2012 (173,619 metres); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 24 surface drillholes drilled in 2013 (5,200
 metres); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 409 underground drillholes drilled in 2013
 (38,840 metres). 
Drillhole paths were surveyed at a nominal 50 metre interval
using a Reflex EZ single shot instrument. There was no apparent drilling or
recovery factor that would materially impact the accuracy and reliability of the
drilling results. 
The drill collars were surveyed by McElhanney Surveying from
Terrace, British Columbia. McElhanney Surveying used a total station instrument
and permanent ground control stations for reference and have completed all the
surveying on the project since 2009. All underground drill collars were surveyed
by Procon. 
Historical drill core sizes for surface drillholes were NQ
(47.6 millimetre diameter) and BQ (36.5 millimetre diameter). Core size for
drillholes collared from an underground exploration ramp at West Zone was AQ (27
millimetre diameter). 
Core sizes for the surface collared drillholes are PQ (85
millimetre diameter), HQ (63.5 millimetre diameter) and NQ (47.6 millimetre
diameter). Approximately 50% to 60% of Pretium Resources' core is HQ size. All
drillcore collected from the underground drilling in 2013 was HQ size. 
D-45 

Sampling, Analysis, Data Verification and Security 
Split PQ samples weigh approximately 10 kilograms. HQ samples
are around 6 kilograms, and NQ are 3 kilograms to 4 kilograms. These weights
assume a nominal 1.5 metre sample length. In general, the average sample size
submitted to the analytical laboratory, ALS Chemex was 6.5 kilograms. 
Samples at ALS Chemex were crushed to 70% passing 2
millimetres, (-10 mesh). Samples were riffle split and 500 g were pulverized to
85% passing 75 μm (-200 mesh). The remaining coarse reject material was returned
to us for storage in the Stewart warehouse. 
Gold was determined using fire assay on a 30 g aliquot with an
atomic absorption finish. In addition, a 33 element package was completed using
a four acid digest and ICP-AES analysis, which included the silver. Density
determinations were done by ALS Chemex using the pycnometer method on pulps from
the drilling program. 
Snowden analysed the QA/QC for the Brucejack Project. The
Brucejack drillhole and QA/QC database is managed by GeoSpark Consulting Inc.,
who also manage the routine analysis of the QA/QC results for Pretium Resources.
GeoSpark Consulting Inc. supplied Snowden with a QA/QC database, in Microsoft
Access format, containing the QA/QC results for all drilling up to December 5,
2013. 
The QA/QC protocols included the use of field duplicates,
standards and blanks. The quality control samples were included at a nominal
rate of one field duplicate, one standard and one blank for every 20 samples.
Check assays, in the form of pulp duplicates, were also completed by a different
laboratory and compared with the primary laboratory. 
Procedures undertaken by Pretium Resources have been under the
supervision and security of Pretium Resources staff, as far as drill core
sampling prior to dispatch. Laboratory sample reduction and analytical
procedures have been conducted by independent accredited companies with
acceptable practices. Pretium Resources ensures quality control is monitored
through the insertion of blanks, certified reference materials and duplicates.

Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing 
Several metallurgical test programs were carried out to
investigate the metallurgical performance of the mineralization. The main test
work was completed from 2009 to early 2014. The samples tested were generated
from various drilling programs, including the samples tested by the bulk sample
processing programs. The metallurgical test programs conducted on the Brucejack
mineralization included head sample characteristics, gravity concentration,
gold/silver bulk flotation, cyanidation, table concentrate melting and the
determination of various process related parameters. The early test work focused
on developing the flowsheet for gravity concentration, bulk flotation, and
flotation concentrate cyanidation. The test work also studied the metallurgical
responses of the samples to the gravity concentration flowsheet for gravity
concentration followed by whole ore leaching. The later test work concentrated
on the gravity-flotation concentration flowsheet. 
In general, the Valley of the Kings Zone and West Zone
mineralization is moderately hard. The mineral samples tested responded well to
the conventional combined gravity and flotation flowsheet. The gold in the
mineralization was amenable to centrifugal gravity concentration. On average, 40
to 50% of the gold in the samples were recovered by the gravity concentration.
The flotation tests results indicated that bulk flotation can effectively
recover the gold remained in the gravity concentration tailings using potassium
amyl xanthate as a collector at the natural pH. Two stages of cleaner flotation
would significantly upgrade rougher flotation concentrate. The gold in the
mineralization showed better metallurgical performance, compared to silver. On
average, approximately 96 to 97% of the gold and 91 to 92% of the silver were
recovered to the gravity concentrate and bulk flotation concentrate at the grind
size of 80% passing approximately 70 to 80 µm. There was a significant variation
in metallurgical performances among the samples tested. This may be a result of
the nugget gold effect. The industrial runs on the 10,000-t bulk sample for the
2013 bulk sample processing program and the 1,200-t high- grade Cleo
mineralization conducted in 2014 showed that the gravity/flotation process
flowsheet as designed for the Brucejack mineralization suited the treatment of
the bulk sample. The results also showed that the gravity/flotation flowsheet
adapted well for the varying mineralization and the wide range feed grades that
were experienced during processing of the bulk sample. 
D-46 

Cyanide leach tests were also conducted to investigate the gold
and silver extractions from various samples, including head samples, flotation
concentrates, flotation tailings and gravity concentrates. In general, most of
the sample responded reasonably well to direct cyanidation, excluding a few of
samples containing higher contents of graphite (carbon), arsenic, or electrum.
Cyanide leach process was not recommended for the feasibility study. 
The test results suggest that the gold and silver recovery
flowsheet for the mineralization should include gravity concentration, bulk
rougher and scavenger flotation, rougher and scavenger concentrate regrinding,
followed by cleaner flotation. 
Mineral Processing 
The process flowsheet developed for the Brucejack Property
mineralization is a combination of conventional bulk sulphide flotation and
gravity concentration to recover gold and silver. The processing plant will
produce a gold-silver bearing flotation concentrate and gold-silver doré that
will be produced by melting the gravity concentrate produced from the gravity
concentration circuits. Based on the LOM average, the recovery process is
estimated to produce approximately 5,600 kg of gold and 1,900 kg of silver as
doré per year and 44,000 t of gold-silver bearing flotation concentrate per year
from the mill feed, grading 14.1 g/t gold and 57.7 g/t silver. The estimated
gold recoveries to the doré and flotation concentrate are 43.3% and 53.4%,
respectively, totalling 96.7% . The estimated silver recoveries reporting to the
doré and flotation concentrate are 3.5% and 86.5%, respectively, totalling 90.0%
. The LOM average gold and silver contents of the flotation concentrate are
anticipated to be approximately 157 g/t gold and 1,000 g/t silver. The flotation
concentrate will be shipped off site to a smelter for further treatment to
recover the gold and silver. 
The process plant will consist of: 

 
 
 • 
 one stage of crushing (located underground);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 a surge bin with a live capacity of 2,500 ton
 surface; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 a semi-autogeneous grinding (SAG) mill and ball
 mill primary grinding circuit integrated with gravity concentration;

 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 rougher flotation and rougher/scavenger
 flotation followed by rougher flotation concentrate regrinding; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 cleaner flotation processes.

A gravity concentration circuit will also be incorporated in
the bulk concentrate regrinding circuit. The final flotation concentrate will be
dewatered, bagged, and trucked to the transload facility in Terrace, British
Columbia. It is expected that the flotation concentrate will be loaded in bulk
form into rail cars for shipping to a smelter located in eastern Canada. The
gravity concentrate will be refined in the gold room on site to produce
gold-silver doré. 
A portion of the flotation tailings will be used to make paste
for backfilling the excavated stopes in the underground mine, and the balance
will be stored in Brucejack Lake. The water from the thickener overflows will be
recycled as process make-up water. Treated water from the water treatment plant
will be used for mill cooling, gland seal service, reagent preparation, and
make- up water. 
D-47 

Simplified Process Flowsheet 

 
Mining Method 
The underground mine design is largely unchanged from the
previous feasibility study, supporting the extraction of 2,700 t/d of ore via
transverse LHOS and longitudinal LHOS. Paste backfill and modern trackless
mobile equipment will be used. Mine access will be by a main decline from a
surface portal close to the concentrator. A second decline will be dedicated to
conveying crushed ore directly to the concentrator via two conveyors with a
combined length of 800 m. There will be a two-year pre-production development
period, with steady-state production being reached by the end of Year 2 of an
18- year LOM. The development and production sequence prioritizes high-grade
areas while ramping up overall mine tonnage to the steady state, averaging
approximately 980,000 t/a through to Year 16. 
Geotechnical designs and recommendations are based on the
results of site investigations, and geotechnical assessments that include rock
mass characterization, structural geology interpretations, excavation and pillar
stability analyses, and ground support design. 
The groundwater flow system was conceptualized to provide
inflow estimates to mine workings. These estimates referenced results of site
investigations and hydrogeologic testing and were used to size dewatering
equipment and as input to the process water balance. 
Underground manpower will consist of technical staff, mining
crews, mechanics, electricians, and other support personnel. Pre-production
manpower will be supplied by a contractor, except personnel required for
maintenance and technical support. Total manpower required for full production
is 351, with up to 176 personnel on site at any given time. 
The ventilation system is designed to meet British Columbia
regulations. Permanent surface fans will be located at the portals of the twin,
intake declines. All intake air entering the mine will be heated above freezing
point. 
Paste fill distribution design is based on a dual pumping
system. A positive displacement pump in the paste fill plant will provide paste
to all of the West Zone and the lower zones of the Valley of the Kings. The
paste plant pump will also feed a booster pump located near the main access
point to the Valley of the Kings area located on 1,320 Level. 
D-48 

Ore will be trucked from working areas to an underground
crusher and then transferred to surface via two, 1.07 metres wide conveyors.
Waste rock will be disposed in the underground mine whenever possible, with the
balance trucked to surface for disposal in Brucejack Lake. 
The mine will be dewatered using a dirty water system of sumps
and pumps. Submersible and centrifugal pumps will be used for development and
permanent mine operations. Solids captured in the main collection sump will be
pumped to the mill for residual gold recovery. For underground worker safety,
both permanent and portable refuge stations are planned. The emergency warning
system will include phones, cap lamp warning system, and stench gas. 
The total project initial mining capital during the
pre-production period, including a 10% contingency, is estimated at $240
million. Sustaining mining capital of $280 million has been estimated for the
production period. The total underground operating cost over the LOM is
estimated to be $1,512 million, at an average LOM cost of $91.34/t. 
Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimates 
The West Zone resource estimate remains unchanged from the
Mineral Resource estimate announced April 3, 2012, and filed on SEDAR April 30,
2012. See Table 2 below. 
In December 2013, Snowden completed a Mineral Resource estimate
for the Valley of the Kings Zone of the Brucejack Project. 
This December 2013 estimate was an update of the previous
November 2012 Mineral Resource estimate and included over 40,000 metres of
additional drilling, including 24 surface drillholes (5,200 metres) and 409
underground drillholes (38,840 metres) drilled in support of the underground
bulk sample. In addition to the drilling, a 10,000 tonne bulk sample was
processed through a mill and detailed test work has been carried out to both
validate the previous Mineral Resources and refine the estimation process for
the updated Mineral Resource. 
The result of the test work is an improved confidence in both
the geological model and the grade estimate, with the definition of Measured
Resources as part of the December 2013 Mineral Resource. 
Bulk Sample Test Work 
In 2013, Pretium Resources excavated a bulk sample from within
the Valley of the Kings to further evaluate the geological interpretation and
provide a comparison with the results from the Mineral Resource estimate. The
location of the proposed bulk sample was selected to be representative of the
grade and character of the typical mineralization in the Valley of the Kings.

The design of the bulk sample was limited by provincial
legislation to a maximum allowable bulk sample size of 10,000 t. The bulk sample
was collected as a series of nominal 100-t rounds in underground development.
Pretium Resources elected to process the bulk sample both through a sample tower
on site and at a custom mill (Contact Mill) in Montana, United States. In
Snowden's opinion, the results of assaying of the samples from the sample tower
provided an unacceptable degree of variation in the results due to the coarse
gold nature of the mineralization and this information was not used further.

Prior to the December 2013 Mineral Resource estimate, the mill
results from the underground bulk sample processing were used to investigate the
local accuracy of the November 2012 Mineral Resource estimate within the Valley
of the Kings, and to determine wheth5er the estimation methodology could be
improved for the December 2013 Mineral Resource estimate. 
A series of statistical tests were run to determine whether any
bias exists between the surface diamond drilling, underground diamond drilling,
underground channel samples, and chip samples. No significant difference/bias,
based on the statistical analysis, was evident between the different sample
types. 
However, additional test work in the estimation did display
some bias caused by directional drilling in the area of the bulk sample. The
underground drilling had been aligned in a north- south orientation which is
consistent with the orientation of some high-grade mineralization identified in the
bulk sample, resulting in under sampling of this mineralization. Removal of the
underground drillholes resulted in an increase in the grade of the local
estimate. 
D-49 

While there is no bias evident between the channel samples and
the drilling, the location of numerous channel samples in the centre of some of
the higher-grade mineralization does result in a local overestimation around the
bulk sample crosscuts. Consequently, the decision was made not to use the
channel samples for the final mineral resource estimate. 
The final metal and tonnes from the mill accounting were
compared to those predicted by the November 2012 Mineral Resource estimate for
each drive to assess the effectiveness of the resource modelling process. This
test work has in part relied on comparisons between the test estimates and
results from the bulk sample processing. However, readers of this Schedule "D"
– "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017"
and the Brucejack Report should be warned that there is a significant
difference in the sample support for the resource estimate (each block in the
resource estimate represents 2,700 t whereas the bulk sample packages are around
100 t), and the grade is not homogenous throughout any block. In other words,
the grade can vary from a high-grade side of the block to a low-grade side of
the block, whereas the block grade represents an average of the whole block. If
the bulk sample happens to take a high-grade part of the block, then the
comparison will look like the resource estimate under-estimated the grade, and
conversely if the bulk sample takes a low- grade part of the block, then the
comparison will look like the resource estimate over-estimated the grade in the
block. Whilst it is not entirely valid to compare the results of the bulk sample
with the resource estimate (given the different sample support) locally, it does
provide the best opportunity to fine-tune the estimate to some hard data. The
reader should be warned that the results are only used to give some local
perspective to the grade estimates. 
The results indicated that the November 2012 Mineral Resource
underestimated the total metal content in the bulk sample by about 10%. In more
detail, the November 2012 Mineral Resource estimated high-grade into lower-grade
areas, and low-grade into the high-grade areas, a result of extrapolating the
high-grade values around the high-grade core. This extrapolation of high- grade
values was based on the nature of the mineralization and the interpreted
continuity of the high grades. 
Based on the bulk sample comparisons, Snowden concluded that
the November 2012 Mineral Resource was a good representation of the contained
metal within the Valley of the Kings deposit and satisfactory for mining studies
based around bulk underground mining, but that it was not locally accurate at
the 10 metre block scale. As a result further test work was undertaken to adjust
the estimation method for the December 2013 Mineral Resource, to produce an
estimate that is more responsive to the local scale grade variations. 
Mineral Resource Estimate 
The mineralization in the Valley of the Kings exists as steeply
dipping semi-concordant (to stratigraphy) and discordant pod-like zones hosted
in stockwork vein systems within the volcanic and volcaniclastic sequence. High
grade mineralization zones appear to be spatially associated, at least in part,
with intensely silicified zones resulting from local silica flooding and
over-pressure caprock formation. High grade mineralization occurs both in the
main east-west trending vein stockwork system, as well as in the rarer
north-south trending part of the system. Snowden notes that Pretium Resources
has taken these various observations into consideration in its interpretation of
the mineralization domains for the Valley of the Kings. 
A threshold grade of 0.3 g/t Au was found to generally identify
the limits to the broad zones of mineralization as represented in the drill
cores at West Zone and the Valley of the Kings. In the Valley of the Kings, a 1
g/t Au to 3 g/t Au threshold grade was used together with Pretium Resources'
interpretation of the lithological domains, to interpret high grade corridors
within the broader mineralized zones, and define a series of mineralized domains
for estimation. 
All data was composited to the dominant sample length of 1.5
metres prior to analysis and estimation. Statistical analysis of the gold and
silver data was carried out by lithological domain (at the Valley of the Kings)
and mineralized domain. Review of the statistics indicated that the grade
distributions for the mineralization within the different lithologies are very
similar and as a result these were combined for analysis. This is in agreement
with field observations which indicate that the stockwork mineralization is
superimposed on the stratigraphic sequence. The summary statistics of composite samples from all domains
exhibit a strong positive skewness with high coefficient of variation and some
extreme grades. 
D-50 

Because of the extreme positive skew in the histograms of the
gold and silver grades within the high grade domains, Snowden elected to use a
non-linear approach to estimation, employing the use of indicator and truncated
distribution kriging. In this approach, the proportion of high grade in a block
was modelled, as was the grade of the high grade portion, and the grade of the
low grade portion. 
The high grade population, which contains a significant number
of samples with extreme grades, required indicator kriging methods for grade
estimation. The low grade population was estimated using ordinary kriging on the
truncated (low grade; <5 g/t Au and <50 g/t Ag) part of the grade
distribution. 
Density was estimated using simple kriging of specific gravity
measurements determined on sample pulps by ALS Chemex. 
Grade estimates and models were validated by: undertaking
global grade comparisons with the input drillhole composites; visual validation
of block model cross sections; grade trend plots; and comparing the results of
the model to the bulk sample cross cuts. 
The resource classification definitions (Measured, Indicated,
Inferred) used for this estimate are those published by the Canadian Institute
of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in their document "CIM Definition
Standards". 
In order to identify those blocks in the block model that could
reasonably be considered as a Mineral Resource, the block model was filtered by
a cut-off grade of 5 g/t AuEq. The gold-equivalent calculation used is: AuEq =
Au + (Ag/53). These blocks were then used as a guide to develop a set of
wireframes defining coherent zones of mineralization which were classified as
Measured, Indicated or Inferred and reported. See Table 2.1 and Table 2.2. 
Classification was applied based on geological confidence, data
quality and grade variability. Areas classified as Measured Resources at West
Zone are within the well-informed portion where the resource is informed by 5
metre by 5 metre or 5 metre by 10 metre spaced drilling. Measured Resources
within Valley of the Kings are informed by 5 metre by 10 metre to 10 metre by 10
metre underground fan drilling and restricted to the vicinity of the underground
bulk sample. 
Areas classified as Indicated Resources are informed by
drilling on a 20 metre by 20 metre to 20 metre by 40 metre grid within West Zone
and Valley of the Kings. In addition, some blocks at the edge of the areas with
20 metre by 20 metre to 20 metre by 40 metre drilling, were downgraded to
Inferred where the high grades appear to have too much influence. The remainder
of the Mineral Resource is classified as Inferred Resources where there is some
drilling information (and within around 100 metres of drilling) and the blocks
occur within the mineralized interpretation. 
Areas where there is no informing data and/or the lower grade
material is outside of the mineralized interpretation are not classified as a
part of the Mineral Resource. 
Resource Reporting 
The Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off grade of 5
g/t gold equivalent (AuEq) which reflects the potential economics of a high
grade underground mining scenario. The AuEq value for each block is consistent
with the November 2012 Mineral Resource. In that evaluation, the AuEq value was
calculated according to the formula (AuEq = Au + Ag/53) based upon prices of
US$1,590/oz and US$30/oz for gold and silver respectively. Recoveries for gold
and silver are assumed to be similar. 
High grade Mineral Resources for the Valley of the Kings and
the West Zone are summarized in Table 2.1 and Table 2.2 respectively (below).

D-51 

Table 2.1 Valley of the Kings Mineral Resource
estimate based on a cut-off grade of 5 g/t AuEq – December
2013(1)(4)(5) 

 
 
 Category
 
 Tonnes
 (millions) 
 
 Gold (g/t)

 
 Silver (g/t)
 
 Contained(3) 
 
 
 Gold 
 (Moz) 
 Silver 
 (Moz)
 
 
 
 Measured 
 2.0
 
 19.3
 
 14.4
 
 1.2 
 0.9
 
 
 Indicated 
 13.4
 
 17.4
 
 14.3
 
 7.5 
 6.1
 
 
 M + I 
 15.3
 
 17.6
 
 14.3
 
 8.7 
 7.0
 
 
 Inferred(2) 
 5.9
 
 25.6
 
 20.6
 
 4.9 
 3.9
 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) 
 
 Mineral Resources which are not Mineral Reserves do not
 have demonstrated economic viability. The estimate of Mineral Resources
 may be materially affected by environmental, permitting, legal, marketing,
 or other relevant issues. The Mineral Resources in this Schedule "D" –
 "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017" were
 estimated using the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and
 Petroleum, CIM Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves, Definitions
 and Guidelines prepared by the CIM Standing Committee on Reserve
 Definitions and adopted by CIM Council. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 The quantity and grade of reported Inferred resources in
 this estimation are uncertain in nature and there has been insufficient
 exploration to define these Inferred Resources as an Indicated or Measured
 Mineral Resource and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in
 upgrading them to an Indicated or Measured Mineral Resource category.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 
 Contained metal and tonnes figures in totals may differ
 due to rounding. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 
 The Mineral Resource estimate stated in Table 2.1 and
 Table 2.2 is defined using 5 metre by 5 by 5 metre blocks in the well
 drilled portion of West Zone (5 metre by 10 metre drilling or better) and
 10 metre by 10 metre by 10 metre blocks in the remainder of West Zone and
 in Valley of the Kings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5) 
 
 The gold equivalent value is defined as AuEq = Au +
 Ag/53. 
Table 2.2 West Zone Mineral Resource estimate
based on a cut-off grade of 5 g/t AuEq – April
2012(1)(4)(5) 

 
 
 Category 
 
 Tonnes
 (millions) 
 
 Gold
 (g/t) 
 
 Silver
 (g/t) 
 Contained(3) 
 
 
 Gold 
 (Moz)
 
 Silver
 
 (Moz) 
 
 Measured 
 2.4
 
 5.85
 
 347
 
 
 0.5 
 26.8
 
 
 Indicated 
 2.5
 
 5.86
 
 190
 
 0.5 
 15.1
 
 
 M + I 
 4.9
 
 5.85
 
 267
 
 0.9 
 41.9
 
 
 Inferred(2) 
 4.0
 
 6.44
 
 82
 
 0.8 
 10.6
 
(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) - See notes to Table 2.1. 
Mineral Reserve Estimates 
The mine design and Mineral Reserve estimate have been
completed to a level appropriate for feasibility studies. The Mineral Reserve
estimate stated herein is consistent with CIM Standards on Mineral Resources and
Mineral Reserves. As such, the Mineral Reserves are based on Measured and
Indicated Resources and do not include any Inferred Resources. 
D-52 

The Mineral Reserves were developed from the resource model
"bjbm_1313_v11_cut", which was provided to AMC Mining Consultants (Canada) Ltd.
by Snowden, on behalf of Pretium Resources, in February 2014. 
A NSR cut-off grade of $180/t of ore was used to define the
Mineral Reserves (as used in previous studies). The NSR for each block in the
resource model was calculated as the payable revenue for gold and silver, less
refining, concentrate treatment, transportation, and insurance costs. The metal
price assumptions are US$1,100/oz gold and US$17/oz silver. Costs assume a C$ to
US$ exchange rate of 0.92. 
The NSR contributions for both flotation concentrate and doré
were calculated individually, combined, and assigned to each block in the
resource model. 
Dilution and Recovery Estimates 
In the evaluation of Mineral Reserves, modifying factors were
applied to the tonnages and grade of all mining shapes (both stoping and
development) to account for the dilution and ore losses that are experienced at
all mining operations. 
Ore dilution includes overbreak into the design hanging wall
and design footwall, and also into adjacent backfilled stopes. Diluting
materials are assumed to carry no metal values in the estimation of Mineral
Reserve grades. 
The largest component of dilution at the Brucejack Project will
be paste backfill due to its inherently weaker strength compared to the hanging
wall and footwall rock masses for any given dimensions of exposure. 
Ore losses (recovery factors) are related to the practicalities
of extracting ore under varying conditions, including difficult mining geometry,
problematic rock conditions, losses in fill, and blasting issues. 
The dilution factors were calculated from standard overbreak
assumptions that are based on AMC Mining Consultants (Canada) Ltd's experience
and benchmarking of similar long-hole open stope operations. 

 
 • 
 Longhole stopes (primary, secondary, tertiary)
 carry 1.0 metre of dilution from paste or country rock overbreak into the
 design hanging wall and design footwall, and 0.3 metre of backfill
 dilution from the floor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Secondary or tertiary stopes carry an
 additional 1.0 metres of backfill dilution on each wall that exposes a
 primary stope. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Sill pillar stopes are treated as secondary
 stopes, given the additional backfill dilution that can be expected from
 the roof. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Ore cross-cuts carry 0.5 metre of dilution from
 rock overbreak into the design hanging wall and design footwall. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Production slashing of secondary stopes carries
 0.5 metres of backfill dilution on each wall that exposes a primary stope.
 
Mineral Reserves 
Mineral Reserves tabulated by zone and by reserve category are
presented below. 
The estimate of Mineral Reserves may be materially affected by
environmental, permitting, legal, marketing, or other relevant issues. 
The mining blocks divide the Mineral Reserves into logical
parcels consistent with the mining sequence, and form the basis of the LOM
development and production schedule. 
D-53 

Brucejack Mineral Reserves* by Zone and by Reserve Category
(June 19, 2014) 

 
 
 Zone 
 Ore 
 Tonnes (Mt) 
 Grade 
 Metal 
 
 
 Au 
 (g/t)
 
 Ag 
 (g/t)
 
 Au 
 (Moz)
 
 Ag 
 (Moz)
 
 
 
 Valley of the
 Kings Zone 
 Proven
 
 2.1
 
 15.6
 
 12
 
 1.1
 
 0.8
 
 
 
 Probable 
 11.5
 
 15.7
 
 10
 
 5.8
 
 3.9
 
 
 
 Total 
 13.6 
 15.7 
 11 
 6.9 
 4.6 
 
 West Zone 
 Proven
 
 1.4
 
 7.2
 
 383
 
 0.3
 
 17.4
 
 
 
 Probable 
 1.5
 
 6.5
 
 181
 
 0.3
 
 8.6
 
 
 
 Total 
 2.9 
 6.9 
 279 
 0.6 
 26.0 
 
 Total Mine 
 Proven
 
 3.5
 
 12.2
 
 161
 
 1.4
 
 18.2
 
 
 
 Probable 
 13.0
 
 14.7
 
 30
 
 6.1
 
 12.5
 
 
 
 Total 
 16.5 
 14.1 
 58 
 7.5 
 30.7 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 Rounding of some figures may lead to minor
 discrepancies in totals. Based on C$180/t cut- off grade, US$1,100/oz gold
 price, US$17/oz silver price, C$/US$ exchange rate = 0.92.

Brucejack Mineral Reserves* by Mining Block (June 19, 2014)

 
 
 Mining Block 
 Ore 
 Tonnes (Mt) 
 
 NSR
 ($/t) 
 Grade 
 Contained Metal 
 
 
 Au 
 (g/t)
 
 Ag 
 (g/t)
 
 Au 
 (Moz)
 
 Ag 
 (Moz)
 
 
 
 Valley of the
 Kings Upper 
 4.3
 
 578
 
 16.9
 
 12
 
 2.3
 
 1.6
 
 
 Valley of the
 Kings Middle 
 5.7
 
 503
 
 14.9
 
 10
 
 2.7
 
 1.9
 
 
 Valley of the
 Kings Lower 
 3.7
 
 530
 
 15.5
 
 9

 1.8
 
 1.1
 
 
 Valley of the
 Kings 
 13.6 
 534 
 15.7 
 11 
 6.9 
 4.6 
 
 WZ Upper 
 0.6
 
 304
 
 4.2
 
 407
 
 0.1
 
 8.0
 
 
 WZ Lower 
 2.3
 
 350
 
 7.6
 
 245
 
 0.6
 
 18.1
 
 
 WZ 
 2.9 
 340 
 6.9 
 279 
 0.6 
 26.0 
 
 Mining Block Total
 
 16.5 
 500 
 14.1 
 58 
 7.5 
 30.7 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 Rounding of some figures may lead to minor
 discrepancies in totals. Based on C$180/t cut- off grade, US$1,110/oz gold
 price, US$17/oz silver price, C$/US$ exchange rate = 0.92.

D-54 

Project Infrastructure 
The Brucejack Project will require the development of a number
of infrastructure items. The locations of project facilities and other
infrastructure items were selected to take advantage of local topography,
accommodate environmental considerations, and ensure efficient and convenient
operation of the mine haul fleet. 
Project infrastructure will include: 

 
 
 • 
 a 79 km access road at Highway 37 and
 travelling westward to Brucejack Lake with the last 12 km of access road
 to the mine site traversing the main arm of the Knipple Glacier; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 internal site roads and pad areas; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 grading and drainage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 avalanche hazard assessment; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 mill building and process plant; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 mine site operation camp; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 transmission line and substation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 ancillary facilities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 water supply and distribution; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 water treatment plant; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 waste disposal; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 tailings delivery system; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Brucejack Lake outlet control; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 communications; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 power supply and distribution; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 fuel supply and distribution; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 off-site infrastructure including the Bowser
 Airstrip and Camp and the Knipple Transfer Station facilities.
 
Avalanche Hazard Assessment 
An avalanche hazard assessment has been completed for the
Brucejack Project. Mine site facilities and access routes are exposed to
approximately 14 avalanche paths or areas, and the preliminary transmission line
alignment crosses several avalanche paths. Avalanche magnitude and frequency
varies depending on location. Potential consequences of avalanches reaching the
Brucejack Project facilities, transmission line, worksites, and roads include
damage to infrastructure, worker injury (or fatality), and project delays.
Potential consequences of static snow loads on transmission towers include
damage to towers and foundations, and potential loss of electrical service to
the mine. Without mitigation to the effects of avalanches and static snow
loading, there is a high likelihood of some of the above consequences affecting
operations on an annual basis. 
Avalanche mitigation for the Brucejack Project includes
location planning, in order to avoid placement of facilities in avalanche hazard
areas. For areas where personnel and infrastructure may be exposed, an avalanche
management program will be implemented for mine operations during avalanche
season (October through June). The program will utilize an Avalanche Technician
team to determine periods of elevated avalanche hazard and provide
recommendations for closures of hazard areas. The options for reducing control
include explosive control, or waiting for natural settlement. Areas that are
expected to have increased frequency of hazard and consequences will be
evaluated for the installation of the RACS in order to allow for avalanche
explosive control during reduced visibility (darkness and during storms). An allowance has been made in the
capital and operating cost estimates for six RACSs. 
D-55 

Transmission Line 
For the Brucejack transmission line, Pretium Resources retained
Valard to review potential routes and develop an initial design for the
transmission line to the Brucejack Project site, based on Valard's current
experience in the area. To this end, Valard reviewed potential routes and
determined the preferred route to be an extension from an existing transmission
line from a hydro generation facility to the south (near Stewart, British
Columbia) to the Brucejack Project site. Based on the terrain and the expected
construction conditions, single steel monopole towers are recommended for the
design. 
Site review indicates that the hazards in the area can be
avoided through diligent siting of the tower structures and any structures
exposed to hazards are expected to be designed to accommodate impact pressures.
Worker risks are expected to be controlled by way of an active snow avalanche
risk program. 
Tailings Delivery System 
Approximately one half of the tailings produced by mine
operations will be stored underground as paste backfill and approximately one
half will be placed on the bottom of Brucejack Lake. Tailings will be pumped
from the tailings thickener at the process plant by slurry pipeline to the lake
in a manner which will minimize suspended solids concentrations at the lake
outlet. Fine particulate solids may also be suspended in the lake surface layer
if fine waste rock is placed in the lake. Investigations on minimizing or
eliminating this source of suspended solids in the lake outflow are underway.

Environmental 
Pretium Resources is committed to operating the mine in a
sustainable manner and according to Pretium Resources' guiding principles. Every
reasonable effort will be made to minimize long-term environmental impacts and
to ensure that the Brucejack Project provides lasting benefits to local
communities while generating substantial economic and social advantages for
shareholders, employees, and the broader community. Pretium Resources respects
the traditional knowledge of the Aboriginal peoples who have historically
occupied or used the Brucejack Project area. 
The Brucejack Project area ecosystem is relatively undisturbed
by human activities. Pretium Resources' objective is to retain the current
ecosystem integrity as much as possible during the construction and operation of
the Brucejack Project. Upon closure and reclamation of the Brucejack Project,
the intent will be to return the disturbed areas to a level of productivity
equal to or better than that which existed prior to project development, and for
the end configuration to be consistent with pre-existing ecosystems to the
extent possible. 
2014 Capital Cost Estimate 
The Brucejack Report estimated total initial capital cost for
the design, construction, installation, and commissioning of the Brucejack
Project as US$746.9 million. A summary breakdown of the initial capital cost,
including direct costs, indirect costs, owner's costs, and contingency is
provided below. 
D-56 

Summary of 2014 Capital Cost Estimate 

 
 Major 
 Area 
 
 Area Description
 
 Capital Cost
 
 (US$ million) 
 
 
 Direct Costs 
 
 
 11 
 Mine
 Site 
 21.5
 
 
 21 
 Mine
 Underground 
 179.5
 
 
 31 
 Mine
 Site Process 
 53.8
 
 
 32 
 Mine
 Site Utilities 
 30.5
 
 
 33 
 Mine
 Site Facilities 
 53.5
 
 
 34 
 Mine
 Site Tailings 
 3.5
 
 
 35 
 Mine
 Site Temporary Facilities 
 33.4
 
 
 36 
 Mine
 Site (Surface) Mobile Equipment 
 14.6
 
 
 84 
 Off
 Site Infrastructure 
 89.1
 
 
 Subtotal Direct Costs 
 479.4 
 
 
 91 
 Indirect Costs 
 127.5
 
 
 98 
 Owner's Costs 
 71.0
 
 
 99 
 Contingency 
 69.0
 
 
 Total
 Initial Capital Cost 
 746.9 
 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 (1) 
 Numbers may not add due to rounding.
 
The purpose of the 2014 Capital Cost Estimate was to provide
feasibility-level input to the Brucejack Project financial model. The 2014
Capital Cost Estimate is a Class 3 feasibility cost estimate prepared in
accordance with the standards of the Association for the Advancement of Cost
Engineering International. The estimated degree of project definition meets or
exceeds 30%. The accuracy of this estimate is deemed to be -15%/+20%. There was
no deviation from the Association for the Advancement of Cost Engineering
International's recommended practices in the preparation of this estimate. 
The 2014 Capital Cost Estimate was prepared with a base date of
Q2 2014 and did not include any escalation beyond this date. The quotations used
for were obtained in Q2 2014, with a validity period of 90 days. 
The 2014 Capital Cost Estimate used U.S. dollars as the base
currency. Foreign exchange rates were applied as required. Duties and taxes and
taxes are not included in the estimate. This estimate is divided into four
general sections (direct costs, indirect costs, owners' costs and contingency)
and was developed based largely on first principles from a design, planning, and
cost basis. 
Operating Costs 
In the Brucejack Report, the total LOM average operating cost
for the Brucejack Project was estimated at $163.05/t ore milled which includes
for: 

 
 
 • 
 mining; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 process; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 general and administration (G&A); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 surface services; 
D-57 

 
 
 • 
 backfill, including paste preparation; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 water treatment. 
The operating costs exclude sustaining capital costs, off-site
costs (such as shipping and smelting costs), taxes, or other government imposed
costs, unless otherwise noted. 
A total of 593 personnel were projected to be required for the
Brucejack Project. The unit cost estimates are based on the LOM ore production
and a mine life of 18 years. The currency exchange rate used for the estimate
was 1.00:0.92 (C$/US$). The operating cost for the Brucejack Project has been
estimated in Canadian dollars within an accuracy range of ±15%. 
Economic Analysis 
In the Brucejack Report, Tetra Tech prepared an economic
evaluation of the Brucejack Project based on a pre-tax financial model. For the
18-year LOM and 16.55 Mt of mine plan tonnage, the following pre-tax financial
parameters were calculated: 

 
 
 • 
 34.7% IRR; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 2.7-year payback on the US$746.9 million
 initial capital; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 US$2,251 million NPV at a 5% discount rate.
 
A post-tax economic evaluation of the Brucejack Project was
prepared with the inclusion of applicable taxes. The following post-tax
financial parameters were calculated: 

 
 
 • 
 28.5% IRR; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 2.8-year payback on the US$746.9 million
 initial capital; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 US$1,445 million NPV at a 5% discount rate.
 
The base case metal prices and exchange rate used for the
Brucejack Technical Report are as follows: 

 
 
 • 
 gold – US$1,100/oz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 silver – US$17.00/oz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 exchange rate – 0.92:1.00 (US$:C$).
 
Project Execution Plan 
The Brucejack Project will take approximately 33 months to
complete from the start of basic engineering, through construction, to
introduction of first material into the mill. A further two months is planned
for commissioning and production ramp-up. The Brucejack Project execution
schedule was developed to a Level 2 detail of all activities required to
complete the Brucejack Project. 
The Brucejack Project will transition from the study phase to
basic engineering during the third quarter of 2014 and will move forward in the
following phases: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Stage I – early works including mine development, the EAC
 application, permitting, access road upgrades, preliminary power
 transmission line right-of-way, basic engineering, and the procurement of
 long-lead equipment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Stage II – full project execution (following permit
 approval), including detailed engineering, procurement, construction team
 mobilization, construction, and commissioning. 
D-58 

Mantos Blancos Copper Mine 
Current Technical Report 
The following information on the Mantos Blancos Mine is
extracted or derived from the technical report entitled "NI 43-101 Technical
Report on the Mantos Blancos Mine, II Region, Chile", effectively dated June 23,
2017 and prepared by Leonardo Leite, MAusIMM CP (Min) and Ronald Turner, MAusIMM
CP (Geo). 
Project Description, Location and Access 
The Mantos Blancos mining district is located in the II Region
of Antofagasta, northern Chile. The property is centered on latitude 23°25'0"S
and longitude 70°4'60"W, approximately 45 km to the north-east of the city of
Antofagasta and approximately 20 km to the southwest of the town of Baquedano.
The properties are easily accessed using Route 5 connecting Antofagasta with
Calama. Cerro Moreno airport is serviced by national flights from Santiago and
other destinations on a daily basis. The airport is located approximately 17 km
to the north of Antofagasta. Antofagasta itself is strategically located on the
Panamericana highway, a well- maintained, multi-lane highway. There is also a
railroad line available, which is used to transport supplies. 

 
Mantos Copper S.A (MC) owns 100% of the Mantos Blancos Mine,
composed of 85 mining properties covering an area of 7,848 ha and 33 exploration
rights claims totaling 19,130 ha. 
Production from the Mantos Blancos Mine is subject to the
Mantos Stream Agreement. For a description of the Mantos Stream Agreement, see
"Description of Material Assets – The Mantos Stream". 
One of the risks to the Mine is the receipt of permit approval
from the various government agencies. Golder has not identified any significant
risks and uncertainties that could reasonably be expected to affect the
reliability or confidence in the exploration information, the Mineral
Resources and Mineral Reserves estimates, or associated projected economic
outcomes. 
D-59 

History 
The economic importance of the district has been known since
1883, when David Cervantes and Carlos Mercado, discovered veins of oxidized
copper ore deposited in the hills located north of the road connecting
Antofagasta and Lomas Bayas (the Panamericana highway). 
In 1953, after various exploration works, the Hochschild Group
acquired part of this ore deposit. Subsequently, in 1955 and after the first
exploration works started using churn-drill drillings, the Hochschild group,
together with other investors and CORFO (a Chilean government industrial
development entity), formed Empresa Minera Mantos Blancos S.A. Studies were
conducted indicating the presence of 11 million tonnes of ore with an average
grade of 1.90% soluble copper. This is a historical estimate only, and a
qualified person has not done sufficient work to classify the historical
estimate as current mineral resources or mineral reserves. None of Osisko, the
Orion Parties or Mantos Blancos is treating the historical estimate as current
mineral resources or mineral reserves. For a statement of current mineral
resources and mineral reserves, see the heading "Mineral Resource and Mineral
Reserve Estimates" below. 
Mantos Blancos has been in production since 1960 as an open pit
mine, with an oxide plant and smelting operations. The mine has long been one of
the major copper mines in the region, with annual refined copper output reaching
20 kt in 1962, at peak production of ingots and a minor amount of cement of
copper. In 1961 the exploitation of oxide ore through "pits" began, which was
treated in a leaching plant, with capacity of 100,000 tonnes per month. The
gradual decline of the grades led the company to an expansion of the plan in
order to maintain production; and so, as in 1967, capacity increased to 200,000
tonnes per month. With some modifications, in 1978 it reached a capacity of
250,000 tonnes per month. 
Between 1963 and 1964, the Mala Suerte mine, being property of
Andromeda Mining Company (owned by Mr. Bartolomé Marré), partially supplied
Mantos Blancos plant with production of 2,000 tonnes per month with grades
around 3.5% SCu. Production history prior to this date is imprecise. Between
1965 and 1968, production averaged 3,000 tons per month, with an average grade
of 2.5% soluble copper. 
In 1974 the underground exploitation of Mantos Blancos started,
due to the discovery of large reserves of high grade sulphide ore. Between 1968
and 1980 fine copper production averaged 32 ktpa. 
The construction of the flotation plant to treat sulphide ores
began in 1980, when Anglo American acquired 40% of the mine, and four years
later the mine became a main associate of the company. The flotation plant began
operation in March 1981, with a capacity of 4,000 tpd, and a head grade of 1.90%
Cu insoluble and 19 ppm of Ag, reaching a fine copper production of 45 ktpa in
1981. From this year fine copper production incorporated concentrates, in
addition to ingots and cement of copper. 
By mid-1993, pre-stripping began for the Santa Barbara project,
which basically consists of the union of the four existing pits (Elvira, Marina,
Tercera and Quinta, including the underground works) with the aim of maximizing
the recovery of the mineralized zones of the deposit. In December 1996, the
exploitation of underground ore of Mantos Blancos temporarily ended, with the
extraction of the Patricia ore body. From this year on, copper production comes
from concentrates and cathodes. 
The last major milestone was in the year 2000, when Anglo
American reached 99.97% ownership of the Mining Company of Mantos Blancos S.A.,
which also included the Mantoverde Division in Chañaral. In this year fine
copper production reached a peak of 102 ktpa. 
From 2012, the exploitation of Santa Barbara project has fed
the leaching plant and electrowinning with 4.5 Mt of copper oxide ore, with a
head grade of 0.70% SCu, and a flotation plant with 4.5 Mt of copper sulphide
with head grade of 1.10% ICu. 
D-60 

In 2015, the Mantos Blancos Mine was acquired by Mantos, which
is owned by Audley Advisors Limited and Orion Fund JV Limited. 
Geological Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

The Mantos Blancos deposit is located within the coastal range
in Region II of Antofagasta, Chile. The deposit is a volcanic-hosted,
strata-bound copper deposit emplaced during the Upper Jurassic, related to a
system of hydrothermal breccia feeder structures that intruded into the
Paleozoic metasedimentary basement and the La Negra formation, which includes
the mineralized Mantos Blancos volcanic sequence. In a general context, the
Coastal Range in northern Chile is mainly formed by volcanic rocks of Jurassic
age, intruded by granitoids emplaced between the Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous.
In the Mantos Blancos Mining District, sedimentary, volcanic and igneous rocks
are observed ranging in age from Paleozoic and Cenozoic, which represent a
volcanic paleo-arc developed during the Jurassic that would consist of the
Volcanic Sequence Mantos Blancos and the La Negra Formation. These units are
affected by a set of faults located west of the district, who are immersed in
the domain of Atacama's fault zone and are part of the Salar del Carmen segment.

Mineralization at Mantos Blancos occurs as lenses within
specific lithologies. The lenses have been displaced by faults. The porphyritic
dacite unit is the most favourable for mineralization and contains the largest
number of high grade bodies. Mineralized bodies extend discontinuously for
approximately 3 km in an E-W direction, with an approximate width of 1.5 km and
thickness of 450 m. 
Sulphide minerals include chalcopyrite, bornite, silver-rich
digenite and pyrite. This assemblage occurs as disseminations, veinlets and as
rims on quartz phenocrysts within the rhyolitic dome, which developed mainly
within the dioritic and granodioritic magmatic-hydrothermal breccia pipes.
Mineralisation shows lateral copper grade zoning. The highest grade occurs
within the breccia pipe, with lateral zoning to progressively lower
concentrations. 
The mineralization consists of chalcocite (and / or digenite),
covellite, bornite, chalcopyrite, pyrite, specularite, magnetite, galena and low
sphalerite, occurring in disseminated form, following irregular guides and
discontinuous with varying thicknesses. The oxidized copper correspond to
atacamite, chrysocolla, and minor malachite, antlerite, tenorite, cuprite and
almagres, according dissemination and fracture filling. Silver presence occurs
in the crystal structure of the copper sulphides and occasionally as native
silver. The ore bodies are irregular lenses and oxidized copper sulfides
arranged in tabular form with a 100-200 m thick strongly controlled by
structures. 
The mineralization has a distinct vertical zonation, with
specularite at the top (porphyritic andesite and Superior andesite), which is
followed in depth an area of oxidized copper (atacamite with chrysocolla low),
moving to a zone of high grade Sulphide (chalcocite-bornite). The latter
corresponds to irregular lenses chalcocite- rich center, which decreases towards
the edge going to predominate bornite. Surrounding these lenses is a zone of
lower grade with chalcopyrite and bornite, ending in depth with a pyritic zone,
occasionally in some sectors associated with chalcopyrite. The areas with
secondary enrichment are of small extent, predominantly covellite over
chalcocite and located near major faults of the deposit. The oxidized copper
would have developed by the in situ oxidation of primary sulphides. 
Mantos Blancos is a stratabound hydrothermal copper deposit
with subordinate silver mineralization hosted in a riodacitic volcanic complex
where copper mineralization is strongly controlled by structures. Stratabound
hydrothermal copper deposits are mainly associated with hydrothermal breccia
feeder structures that contain at least 50% of the economic mineralization and
the highest ore grade. The mineralization at Mantos Blancos is concentrated
within a dacitic lava package dipping south between 18° and 25° in the main
mineralized area. 
Exploration 
Ongoing exploration is conducted by Mantos Blancos with the
primary purpose of supporting mining and increasing Mineral Resources available
for mining exploitation. The exploration strategy is focused on tracing known
targets as extensions from current orebodies utilizing host rock and alteration
features down dip and along strike. Historically, this strategy has proven
effective in defining new Mineral Resources.
D-61 

Drilling 
Mantos Blancos collects two different types of sample for
geological modelling and resource estimation, diamond drill hole core (DDH) and
reverse circulation drill chips (RC). Diamond drill holes (DDH) were drilled
historically, and most are located in the mined-out part of the mine. DDH are no
longer being drilled at Mantos Blancos, except for geotechnical or
geometallurgical purposes. 
Mantos Blancos conducted drill programs for exploration and
mine development purposes. The 2016 resource model update considered the
inclusion of 362 new drill samples and 90,611 metres, distributed as RC, DDH and
sonic (dumps). The new drillings included drill holes from the 2014 drilling
campaigns (drill holes not included in the previous resource model), 2015, and
also included 89,000 metres from the 2012, 2013 and 2014 campaigns delayed as a
result of the implementation of the QA/QC program. 
For the update of the 2016 model, a total of 15,643 drill holes
with a total of 2,274,947 metres were used, corresponding to all drillings
accumulated up to the date of closing of the database. 
The collar surveying at the Mantos Blancos mine is obtained
using high precision GPS and total station for the surface data. Daily
operational surveying is undertaken with either GPS or total station and prism.
Mantos Blancos adopted the local coordinate system based on UTM coordinates.

For the 2014 and 2015 drilling campaigns, down hole surveys
were measured by Wellfield Services with an SRG gyroscope. Measures were taken
each 10 metres over the depth of the drillhole, and a second measurement is
taken when the equipment is lifted. Also as a QA/QC procedure 10% of the drill
holes were re-surveyed, with most of the holes showing little deviation. 
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification 
Reverse Circulation Samples 
Since 2009, RC samples are taken at regular 6.0 metre
intervals, weighing approximately 120 kg per 6.0 metre interval. The material is
dropped directly from the cyclone to a riffle splitter. The cyclone has a lever
at the side used to open the bin at the end of the sample interval. Both
portions of the sample are directly passed twice through two splitters located
in series to obtain four equally sized samples. Each sample is passed through
another splitter to obtain the sample that will be sent to mechanical
preparation. The samples are put into plastic bags, weighed at the site, and the
values are recorded manually. 
Sample Preparation 
The mechanical sample preparation of RC and DDH samples is
conducted in Inspectorate laboratory in Antofagasta. 

 
 
 • 
 
 Cleaning: before each batch of samples the crusher is
 cleaned with quartz, and the material is discarded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Blank sample: the first sample of each batch corresponds
 to the quartz, and this sample follows the entire cycle until chemical
 analysis to check for the presence of contamination. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Primary/Secondary Crushing: the entire sample is crushed
 to 95% passing 2.36 mm particle size. For 1 in each 30 samples a
 granulometric test is carried to check particle size. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Splitting: depending on the weight of the sample the
 splitting follows one of two procedures, 

 
 
 • 
 Samples > 15 kg use a rotary splitter until
 1.5 to 2 kg is obtained. The sample is passed through a Jones splitter
 until 300 g remains. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Samples < 15 kg are split with a Jones
 splitter until 300 g is obtained. 
D-62 

 
 
 • 
 
 In both situations, one duplicate is obtained every 20
 samples. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pulverization: the entire sample is pulverised with an
 LM1 until 95% of the sample passes < 0.104 mm. For one in every 30
 samples, a granulometric test is carried out to check particle size.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The sample is then put into a paper envelope, labelled
 with a bar code and sent to the chemical lab for assaying.
 
Assaying 
For TCu and Pb, 1 g of sample is taken, 10 ml of HNO3, 5ml of
HClO4 and 15 ml of HF are added, a cold digestion is carried out for one hour
and then salts are dissolved with 25 ml of HCl and filled to 100 ml. 
For SCu 0.5 g of sample is taken, 50 ml of H2SO4 are added, it
is stirred for 20 minutes at 140 rpm, then transferred to 100 ml and flocculant
is added (boiling method). 
For Ag, 2 g of the sample is taken, 10 ml of HNO3, 5 ml of
HClO4 and 15 ml of HF are added, a cold digestion is carried out for one hour
and then salts are dissolved with 12.5 ml of HCl and filled into 50 ml. 
For carbonate (Ca3), weigh 0.1 g of sample (in a refractory
crucible), 1 g of accelerator is added and LECO equipment is used. 
Sample Security 
Drill core is moved from the drill rig to the core shack by
external personnel. In the core shack, geological data logging is completed at
site using a digital system. Before the data is available for estimation
purposes, data is verified and reviewed, field checked if necessary, and then
uploaded to the main database. Samples are delivered by Mantos Blancos for
sample preparation at the laboratory. 
Mantos Blancos uses BDGeo as the system to coordinate and
handle the complete data input process. The database is backed up on a regular
basis. 
All Mantos Blancos samples are stored and secured in the mine
site under good conditions to ensure their quality. 
Quality Assurance and Quality Control 
All QA/QC is handled online automatically using BDGeo
software®. QA/QC procedures include the insertion of a control sample of:
standards, pulp and coarse duplicates, and blank samples into every batch of
samples sent to the laboratories. The creation of the batch is done on site in
BDGeo by personnel of Mantos Blancos, and include 1 standard, 1 blank, 1 coarse
and 1 pulp duplicate. Sample batches contain 20 samples. 
The quality assessment over the 2015 campaign was controlled
through standards insertion (certificated in OREAS-Australia). Apart of
standards, coarse and pulp duplicates have been used. The insertion rate is 5%
for each stage of control. The mass reduction of samples was carried out by
Inspectorate Company and the chemical analysis was made by SGS Chile Ltda.
Coarse, pulp and standards (internal checks) verifications were also carried out
in this last laboratory. 
The quality control procedure (standards, blanks, and
duplicates) have acceptable levels of accuracy and precision, the preparation of
sample and laboratory results have been controlled. 
Certified Reference Material 
Mantos Blancos routinely inserts Certified Reference Materials
(CRMs) or standards into the analytical stream to assess the assaying laboratory
for accuracy and to determine if there is any bias present. The material used
for the construction of the standards is from the mine and prepared and
certified by external laboratories. Standards cover a range of TCu concentrations to appropriate represent different
ranges. The result of the standards are good and no obvious issues with the
exactitude were identified. The tolerance limit for acceptance are +- 2 standard
deviations. If the standard value is out of the defined limit the complete batch
is sent back to the laboratory for analysis. 
D-63 

Blank Samples 
Blank samples are inserted into the sampling stream as a QA/QC
check for sample contamination and is inserted as part of the batch sent for
mechanical preparation. The material used as blank is obtained from blast holes
with TCu grades of 0.01 % which were logged as rhyodacite. There is no evidence
of contamination during the mechanical preparation. 
Duplicate Samples 
The duplicates are prepared and inserted on-site, and include
two types of samples: 

 
 • 
 Coarse Duplicate: correspond to a second
 portion of material obtained after the first crushing. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Pulp Duplicate: correspond to a second portion
 of material obtained after the pulverization of the sample.

The protocol details that the duplicate of a sample must be
sent in a different batch than the one used for the original sample. The result
of the coarse and pulp duplicates were acceptable and no obvious issues with the
accuracy were identified. 
Data Verification 
Data verification has been an integral part of Mantos Blancos
drilling campaigns and resource estimation. As part of the protocols all sample
rejects and pulp samples are appropriately stored inside shipping containers
modified for this purpose. Inside the containers samples are properly organized
and stored. The database for the resource Model is extracted directly through
the DBGEO © interface software. This software is a geological database
administrator, which validates the information according to the primary key. For
data validation purposes and to avoid errors in the Resource Model construction
the database is analyzed prior to the compositing. This verification includes
consistence between different tables, existence of gaps and duplicity of
information. 
Golder completed a set of data validation queries using Vulcan
and internal software (Datacheck) and found no important validation issues.
Golder is of the opinion that the drill hole database is valid and acceptable
for resource estimation. 
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
The copper recovery considered for vat and dump leaching was
defined assuming the average of the last twelve months, which was used to update
the recovery model considering the metallurgic balance, tonnage and chemical
grades. 
The sulphide copper recovery in the concentrator was based on
the geometallurgical model for the first five years (2017 – 2021) that
considered the laboratory samples. For the following years (after 2022), the
copper recovery was defined assuming the average of the last twelve months -
that includes metallurgic balance, tonnage and chemical grades - which are used
to update the polynomial recovery curve. 
D-64 

Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimates 
Mineral Resources 
The geological modelling of the Mantos Blancos mine considers
the construction of two models. 

 
 • 
 
 Lithology model, this model is not used for any
 estimation purpose, and only for geometallurgical considerations. The
 lithological model was developed by Mantos Blancos geologists using a
 probabilistic model considering the lithological description from the
 geological mapping of rock units present in Mantos Blancos. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Dike model, this model is constructed deterministically
 by interpretation in sections and uses information form drill holes and
 bench logging. 3D solids are constructed based on the sectional
 interpretation and the block model (with small blocks) is flagged. The
 dike model has not been updated since 2015. 
The lithology model is based on the probability of the
existence of a specific rock unit. This probability is estimated by
interpolation of indicators that are based on the rock codes extracted from the
database. Mantos Blancos used a probability threshold of 50% to assign the
blocks to a given unit. Mantos Blancos found a few cases where there were equal
probabilities for multiple units and these cases were solved by taking into
account the unit that was predominant in the local neighborhood. 
The dike model is not used for grade estimation. During the
estimation it is assumed that grades are continuous across units in the deposit,
and then the dike model is used for dilution assuming a TCu grade of 0% for all
complete and partial dike blocks (the dike model is constructed with small
blocks 5 x 5 x 5 m). 
The drill hole database used for resource estimation contains
15,643 drill holes (drill type: DDH, RCD, Sonic drilling for dump). The
information used in the current resource model is equivalent to 2,274,947
metres. 
Resource Classification 
The Mineral Resources were classified by two indicators
probabilistic methodology, which uses grade kriging variance as classification
thresholds. The method is based on relative errors in metal and tonnage
calculated for monthly and annual production periods using spatial indicators
and grade variability models. 
The Mineral Resources are classified as measured when the local
grade, whose variability is corrected to 1-month of production, is estimated
with an error that is not greater than 15% with a 90% level of confidence. 
Mineral Resources are classified as indicated when the local
grade, whose variability is corrected to 1-year of production, is estimated with
an error not greater than 15% with a 90% level of confidence. 
Mineral Resources that do not comply with the aforementioned
criteria are classified as inferred. 
To avoid the extrapolation effect, only Mineral Resources
within the approved drilled and sampled perimeter were considered for
classification. 
Mineral Resource Estimates 
The Mineral Resource estimates for Mantos Blancos are shown in
Tables 3.1 and Table 3.2. The resource is separated by material type. The
mineral resource estimate uses ordinary kriging grades as these are believed to
be the most robust. The deposit has silver mineralization which is not currently
included in the Resource estimate, and will not be until an appropriate
validation is completed. Based on the current resource model, Mantos Blancos
estimation for silver content for sulphide mineralization inside the Mineral
Resources pit indicates a total of 99 Mt with an average grade of 4.88 g/t.
Mineral Resources are enclosed within pit shells that were optimized using
Measured, Indicated and Inferred resources at a copper price of US$3.77 USD/lb.

D-65 

Table 3.1 
Mineral Resources as of December 31, 2016 - Sulphides -
Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category 
 Tonnes 
 (000 t) (2) 
 Grade 
 % ICu (3) 
 Current Contained 
 Cu (t)
 (4) 
 
 Sulphide (Flotation
 and LF)(1) 
 Measured 
 14,344 
 0.71 
 101,771 
 
 Indicated 
 62,390 
 0.54 
 336,906 
 
 Measured + Indicated 
 76,724 
 0.57 
 438,677 
 
 Inferred (inside reserve pit) 
 3,253 
 0.52 
 16,916 
 
 Inferred (outside reserve pit) 
 19,209 
 0.50 
 96,
 045 
 
 Inferred stockpile (Canada 90) 
 21
 
 0.38 
 80
 
 
 Total Inferred 
 22,483 
 0.50 
 113,040 
 
 Total Mineral Resources 
 99,207 
 0.56 
 551,717 
Note: 

 
 (1) 
 Cut-off grade of 0.26% ICu. 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 Tonnes on dry basis. 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 Copper grade based on Insoluble Copper (ICu).
 
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the
 following formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x 10 (% ICu) x 10. 
 
 
 
 
 (5) 
 Mineral Resource pit is based on 3.77 US$/lb of
 Cu. 
D-66 

Table 3.2 
Mineral Resources as of December 31, 2016 - Oxides - Mantos
Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category 
 Tonnes (3) 
 (000
 t) 
 Grade (4) 
 %
 ICu 
 Current Contained (5)
 
 Cu (t) 
 
 Oxide (Heap and Vat
 Leaching)(1) 
 Measured 

 2,427 
 0.43 
 10,436 
 
 Indicated 
 9,027 
 0.39 
 35,205 
 
 Measured + Indicated 
 11,454 
 0.40 
 45,641 
 
 Inferred (inside reserve pit) 
 460
 
 0.35 
 1,610 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Inferred (outside reserve pit) 
 4,438 
 0.42 
 18,640 
 
 Total Inferred 
 4,898 
 0.41 
 20,250 
 
 Total 
 16,352 
 0.40 
 65,891 
 
 Oxide (Dump
 Leaching)(2) 
 Measured 
 458
 
 0.18 
 824
 
 
 Indicated 
 5,611 
 0.17 
 9,539 
 
 Measured + Indicated 
 6,069 
 0.17 
 10,363 
 
 Inferred in situ (inside reserve pit) 
 633
 
 0.17 
 1,076 
 
 Inferred in situ (outside
 reserve pit) 
 2,702 
 0.17 
 4,593 
 
 Inferred (in LOM) Mercedes F2 
 21,996 
 0.19 
 41,792 
 
 Inferred (in LOM) F2 Botadero E 
 6,053 
 0.18 
 10,895 
 
 Total Inferred 
 31,384 
 0.19 
 58,357 
 
 Total 
 37,453 
 0.18 
 68,720 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) 
 Cut-off grade of 0.22% permits that are
 considered in the matrix of identification and SCu. 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 Cut-off of 0.13% SCu. 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 Tonnes on dry basis. 
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 Copper grade based on Soluble Copper (SCu).
 
 
 
 
 
 (5) 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the
 following formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% SCu) x 10. 
 
 
 
 
 (6) 
 Mineral Resource pit is based on 3.77 US$/lb of
 Cu. 
Mineral Reserves 
The Mineral Reserves as of December 31, 2016, are presented in
Table 3.3 and Table 3.4. Golder carried out a Level 1 Mineral Reserves audit for
Mantos Blancos Division according the JORC Code (2012). The activities developed
included a review of input data, methodology, and results supporting the 2016
LoM. Golder was able to reproduce the Mineral Reserves contained in the
statement dated December 31, 2016, and are not aware of any mining,
metallurgical, infrastructure, permitting, or other relevant factors that could
materially affect the Mineral Reserve estimate. 
D-67 

Table 3.3 
Mineral Reserves as of December 31, 2016 - Sulphides -
Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category 
 Tonnes 
 (000
 t)(3) 
 Grade 
 %
 ICu(3) 
 Current Contained 
 Cu
 (t)(4) 
 
 Sulphides
 (Flotation)(1) 
 Proved 
 27,132 
 0.86 
 233,335 
 
 Probable 
 54,021 
 0.60 
 323,110 
 
 Total 
 81,153 
 0.69 
 556,445 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) 
 Cut-off grade of 0.26% ICu. 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 Tonnes on dry basis. 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 Copper grade based on Insoluble Copper (ICu).
 
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the
 following formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% ICu) x 10

Table 3.4 
Mineral Reserves as of December 31, 2016 - Oxides - Mantos
Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category 
 Tonnes (3) 
 (000
 t) 
 Grade (4) 
 %
 SCu 
 Current 
 Contained Cu
 (t)(5) 
 
 Oxides (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved
 
 1,720
 
 0.35
 
 6,020
 
 
 Probable 
 11,825 
 0.29
 
 33,853 
 
 Total 
 13,545 
 0.29 
 39,873 
 
 Este Stockpile (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved
 
 - 
 - 
 -
 
 
 Probable 
 11,378 
 0.18
 
 20,480 
 
 Total 
 11,378 
 0.18 
 20,480 
 
 Mercedes Stockpile (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved
 
 - -
 
 - 
 -
 
 
 Probable 
 36,639 
 0.19
 
 69,614 
 
 Total 
 36,639 
 0.19 
 69,614 
 
 Oxides (Heap and Vat
 Leaching)(2) 
 Proved
 
 1,004
 
 0.46
 
 4,618
 
 
 Probable 
 2,852
 
 0.45
 
 12,834 
 
 Total 
 3,856 
 0.45 
 17,452 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 
 (1) 
 Cut-off grade of 0.13% SCu. 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 Cut-off grade of 0.22% SCu. 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 Tonnes on dry basis. 
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 Copper grade based on soluble copper (SCu).
 
 
 
 
 
 (5) 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the
 following formula: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% SCu) x 10.

Mantos Copper maintains a reconciliation between the Mineral
Reserve model and actual mine production. Reconciliations to 2016 production
indicate that the Mineral Resource model is performing well for sulphide ore
with the normal range of variability (± 10%). The long-term model for oxide ore
has consistently reported more tonnage (19% higher in the period) and copper
grade (11% higher in the period). 
D-68 

Mining Operations 
Mantos Blancos is an open pit mine extracting both sulphide and
oxide copper ores, which are treated in crushing, milling, concentrator,
leaching, solvent extraction and electro-winning plants, producing copper
concentrates and high purity (LME Grade A) copper cathodes. 
The Mantos Blancos Mine includes one large open pit (Santa
Barbara) that provides sulphide ore to feed the concentrator and oxide ore to
the leach pads. Other sources of ore in the Mantos Blancos Mine are sulphide ore
stock (Cancha 90) and oxide ore stocks (Mercedes and Este). 
The Mineral Resources reported as of 31 December, 2016 are
based on the resources model developed in June 2016 and used to define the LoM
that consists of ten pushbacks which will be mined during the period from 2017
to 2029. The total material (ore and waste) moved increases by 30.2 Mt in 2017
to 60.0 Mt in 2020, remaining at this level until 2026 when it begins to
decrease until 2029. Considering the ore re-handle from stockpiles to
concentrator and the oxide ore to the Mercedes dump, the total material moved
reaches 62.1 Mt in 2024. 
The cut-off grades were defined based on economic parameters
for the three metallurgical processes used in Mantos Blancos mine, adopting the
values of 0.26% (Insoluble copper - ICu), 0.22% (Soluble copper - SCu) and 0.13%
(Soluble copper - SCu) for flotation, Vat and Dump leaching respectively. 
Processing and Recovery Operations 
Oxide ore from the mine is processed using a combination of
vat, dump, and heap leaching. Currently, vats process 1.5 Mtpa of oxide ore.
Dump leaching is used to process around 5.9 to 15.0 Mtpa from the Este and
Mercedes dumps. The vat and dump leaching processes end in 2019. 
Treatment of the copper-rich pregnant leach solution occurs in
the solvent extraction-electrowinning plant to produce copper cathodes. The
maximum production capacity is 65 ktpa of fine copper. The life of mine plan for
the solvent extraction-electrowinning cathode plant considered a fine copper
production of 18.0 ktpa up to 2018 and 13.4 ktpa in 2019. 
Sulphide ore is processed in the concentrator plant, where
copper concentrate is produced, with an average grade ranging from 29% to 33%.
The sulphide processing plant will operate at a throughput capacity of 4.7 Mtpa
from 2017 to 2019 when the ramp-up of the new sulphide line is expected to
start, increasing the processing plant capacity up to 7.3 Mtpa from 2021.
According to the life of mine plan, the concentrator will produce 25.7 ktpa of
fine copper (contained) in 2017, reaching the maximum production of 57.2 ktpa in
2023. 
In order to maintain the copper production and use the sulphide
ore reserves available at deeper levels of the deposit, Mantos Blancos has
developed an expansion plan to increase the current processing level of 4.7 Mtpa
up to 7.3 Mtpa, starting in 2020. Mantos Copper has contracted Hatch for the
related engineering studies to develop technical solutions, estimating capex and
opex, and defining the plan for implementing the facilities expansion. 
Current Mineral Processing 
The current ore processing at Mantos Blancos has two operating
lines, one for sulphide ore and the other for oxide ore. When the Mantos Blancos
Mine operation began, the oxide line was the most important due to the
processing of oxidized and mixed ores mined in the upper portions of the
deposit. With the deepening of the mine, these materials became more scarce and
consequently the cathode production has decreased. For these reasons Mantos
Copper is conducting studies on increasing the sulphide processing capacity to
compensate for the production of the oxide operation that will be shut down.

D-69 

Infrastructure, Permitting and Compliance Activities

Access 
The Mantos Blancos Mine is accessed by paved public roads. The
mine has a number of private roads for access to the various facilities. The
private roads include small vehicle roads as well as a network of haul roads.
The haul roads are built to a width suitable for the haul trucks. Most
consumables and personnel are transported these routes by light vehicles. 
Buildings and Facilities 
The infrastructure for the Mantos Blancos mine is developed and
in service. Figure 3.1 shows the general layout of Mantos Blancos
infrastructure.
Figure 3.1 

The main facilities in the Mantos Blancos Mine are the Santa
Barbara pit, the Argentina Norte dump, the Fase 8 dump, the Este dump, the Oeste
dump, the concentrator plant, the vats, the coarse tailings deposit, the fine
tailings deposit, the Mercedes stockpile, the Mercedes dump, secondary leaching
piles, and the solvent extraction - electrowinning plant. Ancillary facilities
in the mine are workshops and warehouses, administrative buildings and offices
and explosives and chemicals storage. 
Water Supply 
Water is supplied by Ferrocarriles Antofagasta Bolivia (FCAB)
and Aguas Antofagasta. Water is pumped and transported by pipelines from Siloli
and Toconce, located approximately 250 km from the Mantos Blancos Mine.
Currently, the water consumption of the Mantos Blancos site is 10,000
m3/day, and the maximum storage capacity is 17,000 m3.

Due to the reduction of the material treated in the vats,
reduction of processing in the dump leach and optimization of the water recovery
in the tailings, the estimated water consumption for the life of the mine does
not exceed the 145 l/s value contracted with FCAB and Aguas Antofagasta, except
in the years 2017 and 2018, where it will be supplied based on an additional
contract. 
D-70 

The industrial water supply contract of 130 l/s with Aguas
Antofagasta ends in 2023, with a clause allowing a first renewal for five years
until 2028, and a second extension for the same time until 2033. A contract with
FCAB to supply 15 l/s of better quality water to be used in specific processes
ends in 2018. Mantos Blancos plans to renew this contract during 2017. The
Mantos Blancos site does not have a water intake permit. 
Power 
Electrical power is provided by ENORCHILE and delivered to the
mine through a high voltage power line (220 kV) connected to the national grid.
The Mantos Blancos site has a power plant managed by an external company and
connected to the national grid as well. The current electrical power supply
contracts are sufficient to comply with the demands according to the mine plan.

Communications 
The mine site has a communication network of telephones and
licensed UHF radio repeaters within the main pit mining area. Outside this area
the communication is by means of UHF CB radio, satellite phone, and cellular
phone. 
Tailings Storage Facility 
Tailings from the concentrator plant are separated into fine
and coarse tailings. Currently, tailings production is 4.42 Mtpa, including 1.76
Mtpa of fine tailings and 2.66 Mtpa of coarse tailings. 
Social or Community Impact 
The Mantos Blancos area of influence includes the city of
Antofagasta, and Baquedanoa, a small community of 900 people located 20 km north
of the mine. The engagement plan developed by Mantos Copper focuses on the
following three pillars of action: 

 
 • 
 Education: providing quality educational establishments in
 the area of influence and development through support of talented
 students; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Sustainable communities: supporting projects to improve the
 quality of life of the local people and the quality of the environment;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Entrepreneurship and employability: providing technical to
 micro and small businesses from different industries in the area of
 influence and development, along with improving the employability of
 vulnerable groups. 
Permitting 
Environmental studies are ongoing and conducted as required to
support the operation and any ancillary projects. The qualified persons for the
Mantos Blancos Technical Report are not aware of any known environmental issues
that could materially impact Mantos Blancos' ability to operate. 
The permit classification adopted by Mantos Copper is divided
into the following categories: 

 
 • 
 Approved: current licenses with a
 control plan of the commitments and monitoring included. This category
 includes licenses that have been corrected or rectified; 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 In process: licenses that have been
 submitted to the competent departments, or those do not have the total of
 commitments or without a control plan of the commitments and monitoring
 included. This category includes permits in process that were refused by
 the authorities or withdrawn by Mantos Copper. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Pending: licenses that have been
 identified as necessary but not submitted, awaiting approval of previous
 stages of projects. This category could be classified as "In preparation"
 or "In planning"; 
D-71 

 
 
 • 
 In preparation: permit that is in
 preparation or under internal review; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 In planning: permits that are considered
 in the matrix of identification and that have been reported to the
 corresponding areas as necessary; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Closed: permits that have complied with
 its term of validity. 
In 2016, twenty-three new permits were approved and eleven were
in process. 
Capital and Operating Costs 
Capital Costs 
Table 3.5 provides the capital costs (CAPEX) from 2017 to 2029.
The total CAPEX for the life of mine plan is USD$228.5 million. 
Table 3.5 
Capital Costs 

 
 Description 
 Unit 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 
 
 Mining fleet 
 MUSD
 
 
 
 2.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sulphide concentrator 
 MUSD 
 2.3 
 1.2 
 0.9 
 0.4 
 1.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oxide plant 
 MUSD
 
 4.8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tailings dam 
 MUSD
 
 
 
 1.3
 
 4.8
 
 2.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Infrastructure 
 MUSD
 
 1.8
 
 0.9
 
 2.5
 
 0.6
 
 0.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Minor projects 
 MUSD
 
 0.3
 
 0.3
 
 0.3
 
 0.3
 
 0.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Deferred Capex MB Project 
 MUSD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.3 
 17.1 
 16.2 
 3.9 
 
 
 
 
 Stay-in-business - Long-term (3% of
 direct cost) 
 MUSD 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.8 
 5.9 
 6.0 
 6.0 
 5.9 
 4.6 
 4.5 
 
 
 Expansionary Capex 
 MUSD 
 
 6.6 
 81.9 
 32.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 MUSD 
 9.1 
 9.0 
 89.2 
 38.9 
 4.4 
 5.8 
 8.2 
 23.1 
 22.1 
 9.7 
 4.6 
 4.5 
 
Operating Costs 
The operating costs for Mantos Blancos are developed annually
as part of the site budget process. The OPEX is shown in the tables below. The
average operating cost (C1 cash cost) from 2017 to 2029 is 2.10 USD/lb. Golder
considers the operating cost estimates in the LoM plan to be reasonable and
consistent with historical performance. The concentrate produced by Mantos
Blancos contains silver that is also commercialized. Table 3.6 shows the unit
cost. 
D-72 

Table 3.6 Cash Cost 

 
 Description 
 Unit 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 
 
 Mining Cost 
 c/lb
 
 79.5
 
 97.4
 
 104.6
 
 141.0
 
 96.7
 
 89.7
 
 89.2
 
 103.8
 
 113.4
 
 110.6
 
 64.0
 
 50.3
 
 8.5
 
 
 Processing Cost

 c/lb
 
 107.6
 
 115.3
 
 101.0
 
 74.6
 
 65.0
 
 64.3
 
 58.4
 
 64.7
 
 71.3
 
 71.3
 
 69.7
 
 83.8
 
 94.8
 
 
 G&A 
 c/lb
 
 19.5
 
 20.3
 
 19.0
 
 15.5
 
 10.6
 
 10.1
 
 9.5
 
 10.5
 
 11.6
 
 11.6
 
 11.3
 
 11.6
 
 16.8
 
 
 C0 
 c/lb 
 206.7 
 233.1 
 224.5 
 231.1 
 172.3 
 164.2 
 157.0 
 179.0 
 196.3 
 193.5 
 145.0 
 145.6 
 120.1 
 
 
 Freight 
 c/lb
 
 4.1
 
 4.1
 
 4.6
 
 5.4
 
 5.3
 
 5.4
 
 5.4
 
 5.4
 
 5.4
 
 5.4
 
 5.4
 
 5.0
 
 4.6
 
 
 TCRC
 
 c/lb
 
 14.1
 
 13.9
 
 17.4
 
 25.6
 
 25.3
 
 25.6
 
 25.6
 
 25.6
 
 25.6
 
 25.6
 
 25.6
 
 22.2
 
 17.4
 
 
 C1 (before by- products) 
 c/lb 
 224.8 
 251.1 
 246.5 
 262.1 
 202.9 
 195.1 
 188.0 
 209.9 
 227.2 
 224.5 
 176.0 
 172.8 
 142.1 
 
 By-products 
 c/lb 
 9.2 
 1.5 
 15.3 
 17.7 
 23.2 
 15.1 
 18.4 
 27.7 
 20.2 
 13.7 
 15.8 
 11.2 
 15.2 
 
 
 credit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C1 cash
 cost 
 c/lb 
 215.7 
 239.6 
 231.2 
 244.4 
 179.7 
 180.0 
 169.6 
 182.3 
 207.1 
 210.8 
 160.2 
 161.6 
 126.9 
 
 Def
 Stripping 
 c/lb
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C1 
 c/lb 
 215.7 
 239.6 
 231.2 
 244.4 
 179.7 
 180.0 
 169.6 
 182.3 
 207.1 
 210.8 
 160.2 
 161.6 
 126.9 
 
 
 Depreciation 
 c/lb
 
 57

 48

 30

 70

 45

 35

 29

 27

 10

 13

 15

 16

 29
 
 
 Stripping 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization
 
 c/lb
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C2

 
 
 272.3 
 287.9 
 261.4 
 314.2 
 225.1 
 215.1 
 199.0 
 208.9 
 217.0 
 224.1 
 175.2 
 177.8 
 155.5 
Net Present Value 
A sensitivity analysis for the NPV was performed using
variations in OPEX, CAPEX, discount rate, and copper prices. Simulations were
conducted treating the variables independently. Ten percent increments were
adopted for a total variation of ± 30%. The NPV is 185m USD at a discount rate
of 8.0% . 
The sensitivity analysis was performed disregarding the credits
obtained with silver to simulate the worst case, verifying if in this condition
the outcome is still a positive cash flow that supports the statement of Mineral
Reserves. 
Results of the sensitivity analysis suggest significant
exposure to variations in copper prices and OPEX. According to the analysis, a
decrease in the copper price of more than 11% or an increase in the OPEXof more
than 12% could result in a negative cash flow and, therefore, make the project
not feasible. 
The impact of CAPEX variations is not significant compared to
variations in copper price and OPEX. 
Table 3.7 
NPV sensitivity analysis - MUSD 

 
 Parameter/Variation 
 -30% 
 -20% 
 -10% 
 0% 
 +10% 
 +20% 
 +30% 
 
 
 Copper Price 
 (405) 
 (184) 
 23
 
 185
 
 337
 
 483
 
 622
 
 
 OPEX 
 236
 
 219
 
 202
 
 185
 
 169
 
 152
 
 135
 
 
 CAPEX 
 665
 
 505
 
 345
 
 185
 
 26
 
 (134) 
 (294) 
 
 Discount rate 
 231
 
 215
 
 200
 
 185
 
 172
 
 160
 
 148
 
A study was also developed to quantify the sensitivity of the
NPV to variations in the silver price using similar methodology to the
sensitivity analysis presented above. 
D-73 

The sensitivity analysis for the NPV was performed using
variations in OPEX, CAPEX, discount rate, copper and silver prices. Simulations
were conducted treating the variables independently. Ten percent increments were
adopted for a total variation of ± 30%. Considering the silver scenario, the NPV
is 277M USD at a discount rate of 8.0% . The silver content increased the NPV by
33%. 
Results of the sensitivity analysis suggest significant
sensitivity to variation in copper prices and OPEX. According to the analysis, a
decrease in the copper price of more than 17% or an increase in the OPEX of more
than 17% could result in a negative cash flow and, therefore, make the project
not feasible. 
The impact of CAPEX and silver price variations is not
significant compared to variations in copper price and OPEX. 
Table 3.8 
NPV sensitivity analysis - MUSD - including silver
content 

 
 Parameter/Variation 
 -30% 
 -20% 
 -10% 
 0% 
 +10% 
 +20% 
 +30% 
 
 
 Copper Price 
 (271) 
 (55) 
 122
 
 277
 
 426
 
 568
 
 703
 
 
 Silver Price 
 245
 
 256
 
 267
 
 277
 
 289
 
 298
 
 308
 
 
 OPEX 
 756
 
 597
 
 437
 
 277
 
 117
 
 (43) 
 (203) 
 
 CAPEX 
 328
 
 311
 
 294
 
 277
 
 260
 
 243
 
 226
 
 
 Discount rate 
 334
 
 314
 
 295
 
 277
 
 260
 
 245
 
 230
 
D-74 

Description of Material Assets 
Osisko considers the following portfolio assets of the Orion
Parties to be interests in material mineral projects for the purposes of NI
43-101 with respect to the Resulting Company: the Renard Stream, the Mantos
Stream, and the Brucejack Stream and Brucejack Offtake. Descriptions of these
assets are set out below. 
The Renard Stream 
Stornoway's Renard Diamond Mine is Québec's first producing
diamond mine and Canada's sixth. It is located approximately 250 km north of the
Cree community of Mistissini and 350 km north of Chibougamau in the James Bay
region of north-central Québec. Construction on the project commenced on July
10, 2014, and commercial production was declared on January 1, 2017. For a
description of the Renard Diamond Mine, see "Acquired Material Properties –
Renard Diamond Mine" in this Schedule "D" – "Information
Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017". 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Renard
Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds:

 
 • 
 
 The term of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the
 Forward Sale of Diamonds is until July 8, 2054, with automatic renewals
 for additional terms of 10 years each, subject to the Renard Buyers' right
 to terminate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Under the terms of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the
 Forward Sale of Diamonds, FCDC sold a 20% undivided interest (in a
 proportion of 9.6% to Orion Stream I, 4% to Caisse, 4% to BTO Shine L.P.
 and 2.4% to other purchasers) (the "Subject Diamonds Interest") in
 each Subject Diamond. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Renard Buyers were required under the Renard
 Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds to make certain
 up-front payments to FCDC, representing prepayment of a portion of the
 purchase price payable for the Subject Diamonds Interest, in an aggregate
 amount of the Renard Deposit, disbursed in three installments as follows:
 (a) a first installment of US$80 million, which was paid on March 31,
 2015; (b) a second installment of US$80 million, which was paid on
 September 30, 2015; and (c) a third installment of US$90 million, which
 was paid on March 30, 2016. The Renard Deposit provides a partial offset
 against the purchase price for the Subject Diamonds Interest, as described
 below, and is to be used for capital expenditures made by SDCI for the
 purposes of the development of the Renard Diamond Mine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The purchase price for the Subject Diamonds Interest in
 each Subject Diamond is: (a) until the Renard Deposit has been fully
 offset, equal to the Gross Proceeds payable by payment of the Per Carat
 Cash Price in cash, with any amount by which the Gross Proceeds exceeds
 the Per Carat Cash Price being offset against the Renard Deposit, and (b)
 once the Renard Deposit has been fully offset, equal to the Per Carat Cash
 Price. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Marketing expenses associated with the sale of the
 Subject Diamonds Interest in each Subject Diamond are borne by the Renard
 Buyers; provided that such expenses do not exceed 3% of the Gross Proceeds
 from the sale of each Subject Diamond Interest in the Subject Diamonds.
 Such expenses are deducted from the Gross Proceeds transferred to the
 Renard Buyers upon the sale of each Subject Diamond.

The Mantos Stream 
Mantos is a mining company focussed upon the extraction and
sale of copper. The company owns and operates two mines in northern Chile,
Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde, located in the Antofagasta and Atacama regions.
For a description of the Mantos Blancos Mine, see "Acquired Material
Properties – Mantos Blancos Copper Mine" in this Schedule "D" –
"Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of June 28, 2017".

On September 11, 2015, Mantos, as seller and TitheCo, as
purchaser, entered into the Mantos Stream Agreement, which was subsequently
amended and restated on March 9, 2016.
D-75 

The following is a summary of the material terms of the Mantos
Stream Agreement and incorporates certain amendments required to be made on or
before the Acquisition Closing pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition
Agreement: 

 
 
 • 
 The term of the Mantos Stream Agreement will be
 for the life of mine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Stream percentage, subject to reduction, of 100% of
 payable silver from the Mantos Blancos copper mine until 19,300,000 ounces
 have been delivered, after which the stream percentage will be 30%.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The purchase price for silver under the Mantos Stream
 Agreement is the Mantos Silver Purchase Price for each ounce of refined
 silver sold and delivered and/or credited by Mantos to TitheCo. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In respect of any month, TitheCo may elect, on 30 days'
 prior notice to Mantos, to reduce (a) the designated percentage of payable
 silver from 100% to 75%, and (b) the Mantos Silver Purchase Price to US$0.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Provided that no less than 1,990,000 ounces of refined
 silver has been delivered/credited by Mantos to TitheCo, Mantos may elect
 to reduce the amount of refined silver to be delivered and sold to TitheCo
 by 50%, in which case Mantos shall make a cash payment of US$70 million to
 TitheCo. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 TitheCo made cash deposits in two installments, in the
 aggregate amount of US$82.5 in October 2015. 
TitheCo has a right of first refusal in respect of a sale or
disposal by Mantos of any royalty, stream, participation or production interest
in gold at the Mantos Blancos copper mine or the Mantoverde mine prior to June
30, 2018. In the event that any interest in the Mantoverde mine or project is
transferred by Mantos to a third party, then before the time of such transfer,
the third party shall enter into a binding agreement with TitheCo offering
TitheCo a right of first refusal on the terms set out in the Mantos Stream
Agreement of any gold interest in relation to the Mantoverde mine or
project. 
The Brucejack Stream 
Pretium Resources' high-grade underground Brucejack Gold Mine
is targeting commercial production in 2017. The Brucejack Gold Mine is located
in northwestern British Columbia, approximately 65 km north of Stewart, British
Columbia and consists of 122,133 hectares (over 301,798 acres). For a
description of the Brucejack Gold Mine, see 
"Acquired Material Properties – Brucejack Gold Mine" in
this Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets as of
June 28, 2017". 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the
Brucejack Stream Agreement: 

 
 
 • 
 The term of the Brucejack Stream Agreement is
 the earlier of (i) the date on which Pretium Exploration has sold to Orion
 Stream II and BTO the Aggregate Gold Quantity and the Aggregate Silver
 Quantity, and (ii) September 15, 2055. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 A deposit of US$150 million (US$75 million from
 Orion Stream II and US$75 million from BTO) was advanced at closing as
 prepayment. The Refined Precious Metals will be reduced by the aggregate
 ounces of Refined Precious Metals sold and delivered prior to the
 applicable delivery start date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 If Pretium Exploration exercises the 2018
 Stream Option, the Designated Metal Percentage will be 3% and if Pretium
 Exploration exercises the 2019 Stream Option, it will be 4%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Pretium Exploration may elect to repurchase all
 or a portion of the Refined Precious Metals stream by one of the following
 options: 

 
 
 • 
 On December 31, 2018, Pretium Exploration can
 elect to exercise the 2018 Non-Stream Option or the 2018 Stream Option; or
 
D-76 

 
 
 • 
 On December 31, 2019, Pretium Exploration can
 elect to exercise the 2019 Non-Stream Option or the 2019 Stream Option.
 

 
 •
 
 
 
 
 
 If Pretium Exploration does not exercise the right to
 reduce or repurchase the Refined Precious Metals stream by December 31,
 2019, US$20 million will be payable to Orion Stream II and BTO and an 8%
 stream will apply to the Refined Precious Metals beginning January 1,
 2020, with payment of US$400 per ounce of gold and US$4.00 per ounce of
 silver. If the market price of gold is greater than US$400 per ounce, the
 excess will decrease the deposit until it has been reduced to nil.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Subject to certain exceptions, the Brucejack Stream
 Agreement contains restrictions on the transfer of production and
 transfers of property and assets. The Brucejack Stream Agreement also
 contains a general prohibition regarding changes of control of Pretium
 Resources or any of its subsidiaries. The Brucejack Stream Agreement does
 not prohibit a transfer or change of control of Pretium Resources or any
 of its subsidiaries if a Triggering Event occurs or is agreed to prior to
 the earlier of (i) January 1, 2020; and (ii) the date the deposit is
 reduced to nil, and Pretium Exploration exercises the Purchase Right in
 exchange for consideration equal to the Triggering Event Amount. If a
 Triggering Event occurs and Pretium Exploration has not exercised the
 Purchase Right, Orion Stream II and BTO shall have the right at such time
 to require Pretium Exploration to purchase the Brucejack Stream Agreement
 in exchange for consideration equal to the Triggering Event Amount. Once
 the deposit is reduced to nil, there will be no consequences of a change
 of control of Pretium Resources. 
As security for the payment of all of the stream obligations,
Pretium Resources, 0890696 B.C. Ltd. and Pretium Exploration granted to Orion
Stream II and BTO, a second ranking security interest to Orion Stream II and
BTO, over all of the presently held and future acquired property (subject only
to permitted encumbrances). After the deposit has been reduced to nil, the
security provided by Pretium Resources and 0890696 B.C. Ltd. will be released
and discharged. 
Following payment and performance in full of its obligations
under the Brucejack Stream Agreement, Orion Stream II and BTO's agent (being
Orion Stream II) will promptly, at the request, cost and expense of Pretium
Exploration, direct the collateral agent to release and discharge the right and
interest of Orion Stream II and BTO in the collateral. 
The Brucejack Offtake 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the
Brucejack Offtake Agreement: 

 
 
 • 
 The Brucejack Offtake Agreement applies to
 sales from the first 7,067,000 ounces of refined gold (less any delivered
 ounces pursuant to the Brucejack Stream Agreement described below). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 
 
 
 
 Orion Stream II and BTO are required under the
 Brucejack Offtake Agreement to pay for refined gold based on a market
 referenced gold price in U.S. dollars per ounce during a defined pricing
 period before and after the date of each sale. The offtake obligation
 applies to 100% of refined gold produced at the Brucejack project (50% to
 each of Orion Stream II and BTO) less the percentage of refined gold to be
 delivered pursuant to the Brucejack Stream Agreement (being between 0% and
 8%), subject to the reduction election described below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Pretium Exploration has the option to reduce
 the offtake obligation by one of the following options:

 
 
 • 
 
 Effective on December 31, 2018, Pretium Exploration can
 elect to reduce the offtake obligation to either (i) 50% by paying US$11
 per ounce multiplied by 0.50, on the remaining undelivered gold ounces, or
 (ii) 25% by paying US$11 per ounce multiplied by 0.75, on the remaining
 undelivered gold ounces; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Effective on December 31, 2019 Pretium Exploration can
 elect to reduce the offtake obligation to either (i) 50% by paying US$13
 per ounce multiplied by 0.50, on the remaining undelivered gold
 ounces, or (ii) 25% by paying US$13 per ounce multiplied by
0.75, on the remaining undelivered gold ounces. 

D-77 

 
 • 
 
 On the second day after the delivery date of the refined
 gold, Orion Stream II and BTO are required to make the Provisional Payment
 Amount. Orion Stream II and BTO or Pretium Exploration, as applicable,
 must, six days after the delivery date of the refined gold, pay the amount
 owing to the other equal to the difference between the purchase price and
 the Provisional Payment Amount. 
Description of Certain Other Assets Comprising the
Acquired Assets 
The description of certain other assets of the Orion Parties
comprising the Acquired Assets including the SASA stream, the Casino royalty,
the Amulsar stream and the Back Forty stream are set out below. 
The SASA Stream 
The SASA mine is located in Macedonia and is one of the largest
zinc, lead and silver mines in Europe, producing approximately 30,000 tonnes of
lead, 22,000 tonnes of zinc and 400,000 ounces of silver in concentrates per
annum according to information on the following website
www.lynxresources.com.
On September 1, 2016, Lynx Metals, as purchaser, and SASA, as
seller, entered into the SASA Stream Agreement, governing the purchase of SASA
Payable Silver produced at the SASA mine, which was subsequently amended on
October 18, 2016.
The following is a summary of the material terms of the SASA
Stream Agreement: 

 
 • 
 
 The term of the SASA Stream Agreement is 40 years, with
 automatic renewals for additional terms of 10 years each, unless there
 have been no active mining operations on the SASA mine during the last 10
 years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lynx Metals shall receive, 100% of the number of ounces
 of SASA Payable Silver in respect of any minerals from the SASA mine for
 which SASA receives an offtaker settlement under a lead and/or zinc
 offtake agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lynx Metals was required to make a cash deposit in the
 amount of US$22,064,374.42, payable in a series of installments. The
 deposit has been fully paid. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The SASA Fixed Silver Price in respect of the period up
 to and including December 31, 2016 was $5 per ounce of refined silver. In
 respect of each subsequent calendar year of the SASA Stream Agreement, the
 SASA Fixed Silver Price increases annually by the lesser of (i) inflation
 over the previous calendar year, measured by the CPI Index and (ii) 3%.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lynx Metals is required under the terms of the SASA
 Stream Agreement to pay to SASA, for each ounce of refined silver sold and
 delivered by SASA to Lynx Metals, a purchase price equal to: (a) the SASA
 Fixed Silver Price plus an amount equal to the refining charge (as set out
 in the SASA Stream Agreement) in respect of each such ounce of refined
 silver; or (b) if less, the silver market price quoted by the London
 Bullion Market Association for refined silver on the business day
 immediately preceding the date of delivery of such refined silver.
 
SASA is a private Macedonian company.
The Casino Royalty 
The Casino project is located in Yukon, Canada and hosts one of
the largest undeveloped copper-gold deposits in Canada. The Casino project is
currently in the environmental assessment review phase and contains copper,
gold, molybdenum and silver deposits. The mill is expected to process about
120,000 tonnes of ore per day or 43.8 million tonnes per year over a 22-year
mine life. 
D-78 

On December 21, 2012 Western Copper, Casino Mining Corp. and
8248567 Canada Limited entered into a net smelter returns royalty agreement
whereby Casino Mining Corp. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Western Copper)
granted 8248567 Canada Limited the Casino NSR Royalty. Casino Mining Corp. has
the option to repurchase 0.75% of the Casino NSR Royalty (resulting in a 2.00%
remaining royalty) for US$59 million on or before December 31, 2017. Western
Copper is a Vancouver-based exploration and development company and is listed on
the TSX and the New York Stock Exchange MKT. 
A summary of the Casino NSR Royalty is disclosed in the annual
information form of Western Copper dated March 23, 2017 and the material change
report and press release of Western Copper dated December 21, 2012 which are
available on SEDAR under Western Copper's issuer profile at
www.sedar.com.
The Amulsar Stream 
The Amulsar project is a gold-bearing quartzite deposit located
in southern Armenia. The Amulsar project is in the development stage. Production
is expected to begin in 2018. The Amulsar project will be Armenia's largest gold
mine, with estimated mineral resources containing 3.5 million measured and
indicated gold ounces and 1.3 million inferred gold ounces. Gold production is
targeted to average approximately 225,000 ounces annually over an initial
10-year mine life. 
On November 30, 2015, Lydian Armenia, as seller, Lydian, as
guarantor, and the Amulsar Purchasers, entered into the Amulsar Stream
Agreement, pursuant to which Lydian Armenia agreed to sell to the Amulsar
Purchasers the Amulsar Designated Gold Percentage and the Amulsar Designated
Silver Percentage. The obligations of the Amulsar Purchasers under the Amulsar
Stream Agreement are several and not joint, nor joint and several. 
A copy of the Amulsar Stream Agreement is available on SEDAR
under Lydian's issuer profile at www.sedar.com. A summary of the Amulsar
Stream Agreement is disclosed in the annual information form of Lydian dated
March 30, 2017. 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Amulsar
Stream Agreement: 

 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Amulsar Stream Agreement applies to the Amulsar
 project until the earlier of (i) the date that the aggregate gold quantity
 and aggregate silver quantity have been delivered, and (ii) 40 years. At
 such time as the aggregate gold quantity and aggregate silver quantity
 shall have been produced, the Amulsar Stream Agreement will cease to apply
 to the Amulsar project. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Amulsar Stream Agreement requires the Amulsar
 Purchasers to make up-front payments to Lydian Armenia, representing
 prepayment of a portion of the purchase price payable for the Amulsar
 Designated Gold Percentage (as defined below) and Amulsar Designated
 Silver Percentage (as defined below), in an aggregate amount equal to the
 Amulsar Cash Deposit which were disbursed in two installments of US$25
 million, paid on December 7, 2015, and US$35 million, paid on September
 30, 2016. The Amulsar Cash Deposit is applied in partial satisfaction of
 the Gold Purchase Price and the Silver Purchase Price, in the manner
 described below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Amulsar Stream Agreement also provides that the
 Amulsar Purchasers must, in addition to the Amulsar Cash Deposit), pay the
 Amulsar Fixed Gold Price and the Amulsar Fixed Silver Price, subject to an
 increase of 1% per annum beginning three years after the commercial
 production date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Gold Purchase Price payable for the Amulsar
 Designated Gold Percentage is equal to the gold market price on the
 business day immediately preceding the date of delivery of such refined
 gold, payable to Lydian Armenia in cash equal to the amount of the lesser
 of the Amulsar Fixed Gold Price and the gold market price on the date of
 delivery, with any amount by which the Gold Market Price exceeds the
 Amulsar Fixed Gold Price being credited against the Amulsar Cash Deposit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Silver Purchase Price payable for the Amulsar
 Designated Silver Percentage is equal to the silver market price on the
 business day immediately preceding the date of delivery of the refined
 silver, payable in cash equal to the amount of the lesser of the Amulsar
 Fixed Silver Price and the silver market price, with any amount by which
 the silver market price exceeds the Amulsar Fixed Silver Price being
 credited against the Amulsar Cash Deposit. 
D-79 

 
 • 
 
 Once the Amulsar Cash Deposit is reduced to zero as a
 result of the credits described above, the payment for refined gold or
 refined silver will be the lesser of the fixed price and market price (of
 either gold or silver, as applicable) on the day immediately prior to the
 date of delivery, payable in cash, until the aggregate gold quantity and
 aggregate silver quantity is delivered. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 As security for the due payment of all stream
 obligations, Lydian Armenia granted a first ranking security interest to
 the Amulsar Purchasers pari passu with lenders in all of its
 presently held and future acquired property subject to permitted
 encumbrances. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Following payment and performance in full of its
 obligations under the Amulsar Stream Agreement, the Amulsar Purchaser's
 agent (being Orion Co IV) will promptly, at the request, cost and expense
 of Lydian Armenia, direct the collateral agent to release and discharge
 the right and interest of Orion Co IV and the Amulsar Purchasers in the
 collateral. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lydian Armenia may elect to reduce the amount of refined
 gold and refined silver to be delivered and sold by Lydian Armenia to the
 Amulsar Purchasers under the Amulsar Stream Agreement by 50% on either:
 (i) the second anniversary of the commercial production date, subject to a
 one-time payment of $55 million by Lydian Armenia to the Amulsar
 Purchasers; or (ii) the third anniversary of the commercial production
 date, subject to a one-time payment of $50 million by Lydian Armenia to
 the Amulsar Purchasers. 
Lydian is listed on the TSX. 
The Back Forty Stream 
The Back Forty project is a zinc and gold volcanogenic massive
sulfide deposit located in Michigan, United States. The Back Forty project is in
the development stage and advancing toward a feasibility study expected in 2017.
Back Forty is expected to produce 532,000 ounces of gold, 721 million pounds of
zinc, 74 million pounds of copper, 4.6 million ounces of silver, and 21 million
pounds of lead. 
On March 31, 2015, TitheCo, as purchaser, and Aquila, entered
into the Back Forty Stream Agreement, which was amended and restated on
September 30, 2015 and subsequently amended on November 17, 2016 in respect of
certain payment terms.
A copy of the Back Forty Stream Agreement is available on SEDAR
under Aquila's issuer profile at www.sedar.com. A summary of the Back
Forty Stream Agreement is disclosed in the annual information form of Aquila
dated March 15, 2017. 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Back
Forty Stream Agreement: 

 
 • 

 
 The term of the Back Forty Stream Agreement is 40 years,
 with automatic renewals for additional terms of 10 years each, unless
 there have been no active mining operations at the project during the last
 10 years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Back Forty Stream Agreement is in respect of the Back
 Forty Designated Silver Percentage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Back Forty Stream Agreement required TitheCo to make
 up-front payments to Aquila, representing prepayment of a portion of the
 purchase price payable, in an aggregate amount of the Back Forty Cash
 Deposit, which is being disbursed in four installments and, as of the date
 of the Orion Portfolio Combined Financial Statements for the three years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 there remains US$1,650,000 to be
 paid. The Back Forty Cash Deposit is applied in partial satisfaction of
 the purchase price for the Back Forty Silver Purchase Price, in the manner
 described below. 
D-80 

 
 
 • 
 
 The commercial production start date is prior to December
 31, 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Back Forty Stream Agreement also provides that
 TitheCo must, in addition to the Back Forty Cash Deposit, pay the Back
 Forty Fixed Silver Price. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Back Forty Silver Purchase Price payable for the Back
 Forty Designated Silver Percentage is equal to the silver market price on
 the business day immediately preceding the date of delivery of the refined
 silver, payable in cash equal to the amount of the lesser of the Back
 Forty Fixed Silver Price and the silver market price, with any amount by
 which the silver market price exceeds the Back Forty Fixed Silver Price
 being credited against the Back Forty Cash Deposit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 As security for the due payment of all stream
 obligations, Aquila granted TitheCo a continuing security and first
 priority lien on all presently held and future acquired property (subject
 to permitted encumbrances) which will be subordinated to the project
 finance facility. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Following payment and performance in full of its
 obligations under the Back Forty Stream Agreement, TitheCo's agent (being
 Orion Stream II) will promptly, at the expense of Aquila, direct the
 collateral agent to release and discharge TitheCo's right and interest in
 the property. 
Aquila is listed on the TSX. 
D-81 

Royalties, Streams and Offtakes on Mineral Properties in
Production 
The following table lists the royalties, streams, and offtake
arrangements comprising a part of the Acquired Assets that are on mineral
properties that are in production as of the date of this Circular. 

 
 Asset 
 Operator 
 Owner of Interest 
 Interest 
 Jurisdiction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bald Mountain 
 Kinross Gold Corporation 
 Orion Royalty 
 1% gross sales 
 Nevada, USA 
 
 Alligator 
 
 Company, LLC 
 royalty 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bald Mountain Duke 
 Kinross Gold Corporation 
 Orion Royalty 
 2% to 4% gross 
 Nevada, USA 
 
 Trapper-Royale 
 
 Company, LLC 
 sales royalty 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Beaufor-Pascalis 
 Richmont Mines Inc. 
 Vaaldiam Mining Inc. 
 25% net proceeds 
 Québec, Canada 
 
 
 
 
 of production 
 
 
 
 
 
 royalty 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Brauna 
 Lipari Mineração Ltda. 
 Vaaldiam Mining Inc. 
 1% gross royalty 
 Brazil 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kwale 
 Base Titanium Limited 
 Vaaldiam Mining Inc. 
 1.5% gross 
 Kenya 
 
 
 and Base Resources 
 
 revenue royalty 
 
 
 
 Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mantos Blancos 
 Mantos Copper S.A. 
 Orion TitheCo Limited 
 silver stream 
 Chile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Matilda 
 Blackham Resources 
 Orion TitheCo Limited 
 gold offtake 
 Wiluna, Western 
 
 
 Limited 
 
 
 Australia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pan 
 GRP Minerals Corp. 
 Orion Royalty 
 2.5% to 4% 
 Nevada, USA 
 
 
 
 Company, LLC 
 production royalty 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parral 
 GoGold Resources Inc. 
 Fund I 
 gold and silver 
 Mexico 
 
 
 
 
 offtake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 
 Stornoway Diamond 
 Orion Co-Investments I 
 diamond stream 
 Québec, Canada 
 
 
 Corporation 
 (Stream) LLC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 San Ramon 
 Red Eagle Mining de 
 Orion TitheCo Limited 
 purchase 
 Colombia 
 
 
 Colombia Limited 
 
 production 
 
 
 
 
 
 agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SASA 
 SASA Mine DOO 
 Lynx Metals Limited 
 silver stream 
 Macedonia 
 
 
 Makedonska Kamenica 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seabee-Santoy 
 Silver Standard Resources 
 8248567 Canada 
 3% net smelter 
 Saskatchewan, Canada 
 
 
 Inc. 
 Limited 
 returns royalty 
 
D-82 

SCHEDULE "E" 
INFORMATION CONCERNING THE RESULTING COMPANY AS OF JUNE 28,
2017 
(See attached) 
E-1 

The following is a summary of the Resulting Company and
its business and operations, which should be read together with the more
detailed information and financial data and statements contained elsewhere in
this Circular. The information contained in this Schedule "E", unless otherwise
indicated, is given as of June 28, 2017. 
All capitalized terms used in this Schedule "E" –
"Information Concerning the Resulting Company as of June 28, 2017" and
not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the "Glossary
of Terms" or elsewhere in this Circular. Unless otherwise indicated herein,
references to "$", "C$" or "Canadian dollars" are to Canadian dollars,
references to "US$" or "U.S. dollars" are to United States dollars. See in this
Circular, "General Matters – Exchange Rate Data". See also in this
Circular, "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
Information". 
Corporate Structure 
Name and Incorporation 
On completion of the Acquisition, Osisko, as the Resulting
Company, will continue the current operations of Osisko with the addition of the
Acquired Assets under the name "Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd", and will continue to
be governed by the laws of the Province of Québec.
It is expected that the business operations of the Resulting
Company will be managed from Osisko's current registered and head office located
at 1100 avenue des Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montreal, Québec, Canada,
H3B 2S2. 
Intercorporate Relationships 
The Acquisition will result in Orion TitheCo Limited becoming a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Osisko. Orion TitheCo Limited holds the Brucejack
Stream and the Mantos Blancos Stream, directly or indirectly. In addition,
Osisko will acquire the Renard Stream directly. Set forth below is the expected
corporate structure of the Resulting Company, which depicts how the material
assets of the Resulting Company are expected to be held following the completion
of the Acquisition. 

 
E-2 

 
 Note: 
 
 
 (1) 
 
 Osisko and its subsidiaries have additional interests in
 other subsidiaries that do not meet the materiality thresholds for
 disclosure set out in Form 51-102F2 of the Canadian Securities
 Administrators. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 The Brucejack Stream is held by Orion Co-Investments II
 (Stream) Limited, which is expected to be a non-material wholly-owned
 subsidiary of Osisko and Orion TitheCo Limited. The Mantos Blancos Stream
 is held by Orion TitheCo Limited. 
Description of the Business of the Resulting
Company 
On completion of the Acquisition, the Resulting Company will
carry on the business operated by Osisko with the addition of the Acquired
Assets, and its efforts will be directed at the identification, evaluation and
acquisition of other royalty, streaming, offtake and other mineral property
interests. 
The Resulting Company's portfolio of material assets will
include the following: 

 
 
 1. 
 
 the 5% NSR royalty on the producing Canadian Malartic
 mine (the "Canadian Malartic Royalty");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 the sliding-scale 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the
 producing Éléonore mine (the "Éléonore Royalty");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 the 9.6% diamond stream on the producing Renard diamond
 mine located in Québec, Canada (the "Renard Stream");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 the 4.0% gold and silver stream on the Brucejack gold
 mine located in British Columbia, Canada (the "Brucejack
 Stream");
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5. 
 
 the 100% silver stream on the Mantos Blancos copper mine
 in Antofagasta, Chile (the "Mantos Blancos Stream"); and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6. 
 
 approximately C$100 million in cash, cash equivalents and
 short-term investments.
The Resulting Company will also hold the other Acquired Assets,
directly or indirectly, as well as a large and highly prospective exploration
land package in Québec and a number of earlier-stage royalty assets and a
majority stake in the Coulon base metals project. 
Information with respect to each of the Canadian Malartic
Royalty and the Éléonore Royalty may be reviewed in the AIF under the headings
"Material Mineral Project – The Canadian Malartic Royalty" and
"Material Mineral Project – The Éléonore Royalty", respectively. For a
summary of the Renard Stream, the Brucejack Stream and the Mantos Blancos
Stream, see Schedule "D" – "Information Concerning the Acquired Assets
as of June 28, 2017". 
Description of Securities 
The authorized share capital of the Resulting Company will be
the same as the currently authorized share capital of Osisko, and the rights
associated with each common share of the Resulting Company will be the same as
the rights associated with each Osisko Share. The Resulting Company will have an
unlimited number of Osisko Shares authorized for issuance and an unlimited
number of Preferred Shares, issuable in series. 
Upon completion of the Acquisition and the Private Placement,
it is anticipated that there will be 156,923,358 Osisko Shares issued and
outstanding, 3,614,861 Options and 11,195,500 Warrants issued and outstanding,
and no Preferred Shares issued and outstanding. 
E-3 

Unaudited Pro Forma
Financial Information 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial
statements of the Resulting Company and accompanying notes are included in
Schedule "G" – "Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial
Statements of Osisko" to this Circular. The following unaudited pro
forma consolidated financial information (expressed in thousands of Canadian
dollars) is based on the assumptions described in the respective notes to the
unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements included in this
Circular in Schedule "G" – "Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated
Financial Statements of Osisko". 
Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31,
2017 (Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars) 

 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash
 equivalents 
 
 149,702 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 
 2,547 
 
 
 
 Accounts
 receivable 
 
 7,200 
 
 
 
 Other assets 
 
 3,971 
 
 
 
 
 
 163,420 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investments in associates 
 
 111,223 
 
 
 
 Other
 investments 
 
 121,336 
 
 
 
 Royalty, stream and similar
 interests 
 
 1,513,377 
 
 
 
 Property and
 equipment 
 
 277 
 
 
 
 Exploration and evaluation 
 
 100,924 
 
 
 
 Goodwill 
 
 300,367 
 
 
 
 Deferred income taxes 
 
 18,454 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,165,958 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,329,378 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current liabilities

 
 
 
 
 
 Accounts payable and accrued
 liabilities 
 
 6,460 
 
 
 
 Dividends
 payable 
 
 4,264 
 
 
 
 Provisions and other liabilities
 
 
 5,311 
 
 
 
 
 
 16,035 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-current
 liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt 
 
 196,005 
 
 
 
 Provisions and
 other liabilities 
 
 14,186 
 
 
 
 Deferred income taxes 
 
 130,070 
 
 
 
 
 
 340,261 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 356,296
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity attributable to
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd shareholders 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share capital 
 
 1,672,839 
 
 
 
 Warrants 
 
 30,901 
 
 
 
 Contributed surplus 
 
 11,735 
 
 
 
 Equity component
 of convertible debenture 
 
 3,091 
 
 
 
 Accumulated other comprehensive
 income 
 
 9,081 
 
 
 
 Retained
 earnings 
 
 243,635 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,971,282 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-controlling interests 
 
 1,800 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total Equity 
 
 1,973,082 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,329,378 
 
E-4 

Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss)
(Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars) 

 
 
 
 
 Three month
 period 
 
 
 Twelve month
 period 
 
 
 
 
 
 ended 
 
 
 ended 
 
 
 
 
 
 March 31, 2017 
 
 
 December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 48,641

 
 
 116,889
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 (23,517
 ) 
 
 (29,773
 ) 
 
 
 Depletion of royalty, stream and similar
 interests 
 
 (19,441
 ) 
 
 (29,275
 ) 
 
 
 Gross profit 
 
 5,683 
 
 
 57,841 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 General and administrative 
 
 (8,121
 ) 
 
 (24,079
 ) 
 
 
 Business
 development 
 
 (2,265
 ) 
 
 (8,282
 ) 
 
 
 Exploration and evaluation 
 
 (42
 ) 
 
 1,240 
 
 
 
 Cost recoveries
 from associates 
 
 990 
 
 
 3,039 
 
 
 
 Reversal of impairment of
 royalty, stream and similar interests 
 
 1,615 
 
 
 19,875 
 
 
 
 Other income
 (expenses), net 
 
 5 
 
 
 (1,665
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating income
 (loss) 
 
 (2,135
 ) 
 
 47,969

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interest income
 
 
 540 
 
 
 1,063 
 
 
 
 Dividends 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,931 
 
 
 
 Finance costs

 
 (1,974
 ) 
 
 (8,784
 ) 
 
 
 Foreign exchange loss 
 
 (1,420
 ) 
 
 (5,846
 ) 
 
 
 Share of loss of
 associates 
 
 (1,445
 ) 
 
 (6,623
 ) 
 
 
 Other gains, net 
 
 2,024 
 
 
 30,146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings (loss) before income taxes

 
 (4,410
 ) 
 
 62,856 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income tax recovery (expense)

 
 710 
 
 
 (5,770
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net earnings (loss)

 
 (3,700
 ) 
 
 57,086

 
 
 
 Attributable to Osisko shareholders 
 
 (3,624
 ) 
 
 57,345 
 
 
 
 Attributable to
 non-controlling interest 
 
 (76
 ) 
 
 (259
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net earnings (loss) per share 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Basic 
 
 (0.02
 ) 
 
 0.37 
 
 
 
 Diluted 
 
 (0.02
 ) 
 
 0.37 
 
Pro Forma Consolidated
Capitalization 
The following table sets forth the approximate capitalization
of the Resulting Company after giving effect to the Acquisition and Private
Placement. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Amount Outstanding After Giving 
 
 
 
 
 Amount Authorized or to 
 
 Effect to the Acquisition and
 Private 
 
 
 Designation
 of Security 
 
 be Authorized 
 
 Placement 
 
 
 Osisko Shares 
 
 Unlimited 
 
 156,923,358 
 
 Preferred Shares 
 
 Unlimited 
 
 Nil
 
 
 Options 
 
 Not Applicable 
 
 3,614,861 
 
 Warrants 
 
 Not
 Applicable 
 
 11,195,500 
E-5 

Fully-Diluted Share Capital 
The following table sets forth the approximate share capital of
the Resulting Company after giving effect to the Acquisition and Private
Placement. 

 
 
 
 Number Outstanding 
 
 
 
 
 
 Designation of Security 
 
 Number 
 
 Percentage 
 
 
 Osisko Shares 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Issued and Outstanding 
 
 156,923,358 
 
 89.6%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Issuable upon the exercise of outstanding Options 
 
 3,614,861 
 
 2.1%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Issuable upon the exercise of outstanding Warrants 
 
 11,195,500 
 
 6.4%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Issuable upon the exercise of outstanding Convertible
 Debenture 
 
 2,620,545 
 
 1.5%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Issuable upon the exercise of outstanding Coulon Exchange
 Rights 
 
 735,942 
 
 0.4%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total number of Osisko Shares (fully diluted) 
 
 175,090,206 
 
 100% 
Dividends 
There will be no restrictions in the Resulting Company's
articles or elsewhere, other than customary general solvency requirements, which
would prevent the Resulting Company from paying dividends following completion
of the Acquisition. For information on Osisko's dividend policy, see
"Dividends" in the AIF. 
Principal Securityholders 
Upon the completion of the Acquisition and the Private
Placement, the Designated Orion Shareholders, the Caisse, together with its
affiliates, and the Fonds F.T.Q. will hold 30,906,594, 19,014,093 and 8,640,488
Osisko Shares, respectively, representing approximately 19.7%, 12.1%, and 5.5%,
respectively, of the issued and outstanding Osisko Shares. 
Officers and Directors of the Resulting
Company 
Officers 
Following the completion of the Acquisition, the Resulting
Company will continue to be led by the current Osisko management team, including
Sean Roosen as Chief Executive Officer, Bryan A. Coates as President, Elif
Lévesque as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance, Joseph de la
Plante as Vice President, Corporate Development, André Le Bel, Vice President,
Legal Affairs and Corporate Secretary, Luc Lessard, Senior Vice President,
Technical Services, Vincent Metcalfe, Vice President, Investor Relations, and
Frédéric Ruel, Vice President and Corporate Controller. 
Directors 
The post-Acquisition Board will consist of 12 members,
consisting of the 10 current directors of Osisko (being Sean Roosen, Joanne
Ferstman, Françoise Bertrand, Victor H. Bradley, John Burzynski, Christopher C.
Curfman, André Gaumond, Pierre Labbé, Charles E. Page and Jacques Perron),
together with Oskar Lewnowski, the Chief Investment Officer of Orion Resource
Partners (USA) LP, and one additional nominee of CDP. 
Executive Compensation 
Upon completion of the Acquisition, Osisko as the Resulting
Company will continue to have eight executive officers, being Sean Roosen (Chief
Executive Officer), Bryan A. Coates (President), Elif Lévesque (Chief Financial
Officer and Vice President, Finance), Luc Lessard (Senior Vice
President, Technical Services), André Le Bel (Vice President, Legal Affairs and
Corporate Secretary), Vincent Metcalfe (Vice President, Investor Relations),
Joseph de la Plante (Vice President, Corporate Development) and Frédéric Ruel
(Vice President and Corporate Controller). 
E-6 

Following the completion of the Acquisition, it is expected
that the Resulting Company will maintain the policies of Osisko with respect to
executive compensation. See the MIC under the headings "Executive
Compensation" and 
"Statement of Executive Compensation". 
It is expected that the Resulting Company will maintain
Osisko's long-term incentive plans comprised of the Stock Option Plan and the
RSU Plan to establish a balance between short and long-term compensation, which
is essential for Resulting Company's sustained performance, including its
ability to attract, motivate and retain a pool of talented executives in a
competitive employment market as well as to ensure a proper alignment of the
executive officers' interests with those of the Resulting Company. See the MIC
under the heading, "Statement of Executive Compensation – Compensation
Discussion and Analysis - Long-term Incentive Compensation". 
Compensation of Directors 
Following the completion of the Acquisition, the Resulting
Company will maintain the policies of Osisko with respect to director
compensation. See the MIC under the heading "Director Compensation". 
Stock Exchange Listing 
On the completion of the Acquisition, it is contemplated that
the Osisko Shares will continue to trade on the TSX and NYSE under the symbol
"OR". The two series of warrants of Osisko currently listed on the TSX under the
symbol "OR.WT" and "OR.WT.A" will continue to be listed on the TSX under the
same symbols.
Auditor 
Following the completion of the Acquisition, the auditor for
the Resulting Company will continue to be PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP/s.r.l./s.e.n.c.r.l., a partnership of Chartered Professional Accountants,
located at their office in Montréal, Québec. 
Registrar and Transfer Agent 
Following the completion of the Acquisition, the transfer agent
and registrar of the Resulting Company will continue to be CST Trust Company.

E-7 

SCHEDULE "F" 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION
ANDANALYSIS OF THE ACQUIRED ASSETS

 
 
 Page 
 
 Orion Portfolio Combined Financial
 Statements for the three years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014…
 
 F-2 
 
 Independent Auditors' Report on Combined Financial
 Statements 
 F-3 
 
 Combined Balance Sheets as at December 31,
 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 F-5 
 
 Combined Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for
 the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 F-6 
 
 Combined Statements of Cash Flows for the
 years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 F-7 
 
 Combined Statement of Changes in Net Parent Investment 
 F-8 
 
 Notes to the Combined Financial Statements
 
 F-9 
 
 
 
 
 Orion Portfolio Management's Discussion
 and Analysis for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 
 F-32 
 
 
 
 
 Orion Portfolio Unaudited Condensed
 Combined Interim Financial Statements for the three months ended
 March 31, 2017 and 2016 
 F-39 
 
 Combined Balance Sheets as at March 31, 2017 and 2016 
 F-41 
 
 Combined Statements of Income and
 Comprehensive Income for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016

 F-42 
 
 Combined Statements of Cash Flows for the three months
 ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 
 F-43 
 
 Combined Statement of Changes in Net Parent
 Investment 
 F-44 
 
 Notes to the Combined Financial Statements 
 F-45 
 
 
 
 
 Orion Portfolio Management's Discussion and Analysis for
 the three month period ended March 31, 2017 
 F-53 
F-1 

Orion Portfolio Combined Financial
Statements for the three years
ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
F-2

 

 
 
 
 KPMG LLP 
 Telephone (416) 777-8500 
 
 Bay Adelaide Centre 
 Fax (416) 777-8818 
 
 Suite 4600 
 www.kpmg.ca 
 
 333 Bay Street 
 
 
 Toronto ON 
 
 
 M5H 2S5 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

To the Directors of Orion Mine Finance Management I Limited as
the investment manager of Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP and its
co-investment vehicle, and Orion Mine Finance Management I-A Limited as the
investment manager of Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, 
We have audited the accompanying combined financial statements
of Orion Portfolio, which comprise the combined balance sheets as at December
31, 2016, December 31, 2015, December 31, 2014, and January 1, 2014, the
combined statements of income and comprehensive income, changes in net parent
investment and cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2016,
and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information. 
Management’s Responsibility for the Combined Financial
Statements 
Management of the entity is responsible for the preparation and
fair presentation of these combined financial statements in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards, and for such internal control as
management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of combined
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error. 
Auditors’ Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined
financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance
with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined financial statements are
free from material misstatement. 
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit
evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the combined financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the
risks of material misstatement of the combined financial statements, whether due
to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal
control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the
combined financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit
also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the
reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall presentation of the combined financial statements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained in our
audits is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

KPMG LLP is a Canadian limited liability partnership and a
member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms
affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG
International”), a Swiss entity. KPMG Canada provides services to
KPMG LLP.
F-3

Page 2 
Opinion 
In our opinion, the combined financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of Orion
Portfolio as at December 31, 2016, December 31, 2015, December 31, 2014, and
January 1, 2014, and its combined financial performance and its combined cash
flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2016, in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards. 
Emphasis of matter 
Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note 1 to
the combined financial statements which describes the basis of preparation used
in these combined financial statements. The combined financial statements are
prepared on a carve-out basis to reflect the financial position and results of
operations of the portfolio of investments to be acquired by Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd.
 
Chartered Professional Accountants, Licensed Public Accountants
June 16, 2017 Toronto, Canada 
F-4

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Combined Balance
 Sheets as at December 31, 

 
 
 (in thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 Jan 1, 2014 
 
 
 
 Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and
 cash equivalents 
 
 5 
 
 
 6,114.9 
 
 
 1,951.4 
 
 
 626.8 
 
 
 78.5 
 
 
 
 Prepaid expenses and
 sundry deposits 
 
 
 
 
 104.4 
 
 
 4.8 
 
 
 8.2 
 
 
 144.4 
 
 
 
 Other
 assets 
 
 6 
 
 
 635.7 
 
 
 2,061.7 
 
 
 473.7 
 
 
 818.3 
 
 
 
 Due from affiliates 
 
 12 
 
 
 18.1 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Total current assets 
 
 
 
 
 6,873.1 
 
 
 4,017.9 
 
 
 1,108.7 
 
 
 1,041.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalty and stream
 interests, net 
 
 7 
 
 
 462,252.5 
 
 
 374,766.9 
 
 
 178,035.9 
 
 
 163,314.8 
 
 
 
 Other investments 
 
 6 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 25,000.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Total non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 462,252.5 
 
 
 399,766.9 
 
 
 178,035.9 
 
 
 163,314.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total assets 
 
 
 
 
 469,125.6 
 
 
 403,784.8 
 
 
 179,144.6 
 
 
 164,356.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accounts payable and
 accrued liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 596.6 
 
 
 1,098.1 
 
 
 746.5 
 
 
 687.0 
 
 
 
 Interest
 payable 
 
 12 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 1,756.0 
 
 
 1,067.7 
 
 
 121.3 
 
 
 
 Due to affiliates 
 
 12 
 
 
 181.8 
 
 
 222.2 
 
 
 20.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Notes payable - current 
 
 12 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 10,867.8 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Total current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 778.4 
 
 
 13,944.1 
 
 
 1,834.2 
 
 
 808.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Notes payable – non-current 
 
 12 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 10,867.8 
 
 
 11,200.0 
 
 
 
 Total non-current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 10,867.8 
 
 
 11,200.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 778.4 
 
 
 13,944.1 
 
 
 12,702.0 
 
 
 12,008.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net
 parent investment 
 
 
 
 
 451,659.0 
 
 
 376,936.5 
 
 
 166,787.3 
 
 
 152,347.7 
 
 
 
 Accumulated other
 comprehensive 
 
 
 
 
 105.7 
 
 
 (552.2
 ) 
 
 (344.7
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 income

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-controlling interest 
 
 15 
 
 
 16,582.5 
 
 
 13,456.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Total equity 
 
 
 
 
 468,347.2 
 
 
 389,840.7 
 
 
 166,442.6 
 
 
 152,347.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total liabilities and equity 
 
 
 
 
 469,125.6 
 
 
 403,784.8 
 
 
 179,144.6 
 
 
 164,356.0 
 

 
 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these
 combined financial statements 
 Page | 4 
F-5

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Combined
 Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Years Ended
 December 31, 
 
 
 
 (in thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 Revenue 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalty income 
 
 10 
 
 $
 5,606.5 
 
 $
 5,107.5 
 
 $
 2,806.3 
 
 
 
 Gold,
 silver and diamond sales 
 
 10 
 
 
 34,088.4 
 
 
 18,273.4 
 
 
 4,722.4 
 
 
 
 Other income 
 
 
 
 
 846.3 
 
 
 690.2 
 
 
 552.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total revenue 
 
 
 
 
 40,541.2 
 
 
 24,071.1 
 
 
 8,081.5 
 
 
 
 Cost and expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchased cost of gold,
 silver and diamonds 
 
 11 
 
 
 22,373.8 
 
 
 17,699.8 
 
 
 4,516.5 
 
 
 
 Depletion
 of royalty and stream interests 
 
 
 
 
 8,257.9 
 
 
 2,692.5 
 
 
 1,282.2 
 
 
 
 Impairment/(reversal of
 impairment) of royalty and 
 
 7 (c)
 
 
 (15,002.0
 ) 
 
 35,602.6 
 
 
 11,996.7 
 
 
 
 stream
 interests 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 General and
 administrative 
 
 
 
 
 5,451.1 
 
 
 5,637.8 
 
 
 5,943.2 
 
 
 
 Other
 expenses 
 
 
 
 
 172.8 
 
 
 198.1 
 
 
 148.8 
 
 
 
 Other (gains)/losses 
 
 14 
 
 
 341.1 
 
 
 (1,723.5
 ) 
 
 150.0 
 
 
 
 Total costs and expenses 
 
 
 
 
 21,594.7 
 
 
 60,107.3 
 
 
 24,037.4 
 
 
 
 Operating income/(loss)
 
 
 
 
 
 18,946.5 
 
 
 (36,036.2
 ) 
 
 (15,955.9
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Finance items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Finance
 income 
 
 
 
 
 2.9 
 
 
 4.0 
 
 
 1.7 
 
 
 
 Finance expenses 
 
 12 
 
 
 (946.8
 ) 
 
 (1,196.3
 ) 
 
 (1,133.1
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) before income taxes 
 
 
 
 
 18,002.6 
 
 
 (37,228.5
 ) 
 
 (17,087.3
 ) 
 
 
 Income tax expense 
 
 13 
 
 
 382.1 
 
 
 396.5 
 
 
 269.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net income (loss) 
 
 
 
 $
 17,620.5 
 
 $
 (37,625.0
 ) 
 $
 (17,356.4
 ) 
 
 
 Attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Owners of
 the Parent 
 
 
 
 
 17,543.5 
 
 
 (37,709.0
 )

 
 (17,356.4
 )
 
 
 
 Non-controlling interests 
 
 15 
 
 
 77.0 
 
 
 84.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 17,620.5 
 
 
 (37,625.0
 ) 
 
 (17,356.4
 ) 
 
 
 Other comprehensive income/(loss) (net of tax
 of $nil): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net
 change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 
 
 
 
 
 105.7 
 
 
 (207.5
 )

 
 (344.7
 )
 
 
 
 Net change in fair value of
 available-for-sale investments transferred to profit or loss 
 
 
 
 
 552.2 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Other comprehensive
 income/(loss) for the year, net of 
 
 
 
 
 657.9 
 
 
 (207.5
 )

 
 (344.7
 )
 
 
 
 income tax 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total comprehensive income/(loss) 
 
 
 
 $
 18,278.4 
 
 $
 (37,832.5
 ) 
 $
 (17,701.1
 ) 
 
 
 Attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Owners of
 the Parent 
 
 
 
 
 18,201.4 
 
 
 (37,916.5
 )

 
 (17,701.1
 )
 
 
 
 Non-controlling interest 
 
 15 
 
 
 77.0 
 
 
 84.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 18,278.4 
 
 $
 (37,832.5
 ) 
 $
 (17,701.1
 ) 

 
 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these
 combined financial statements 
 Page | 5 
F-6

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Combined
 Statements of Cash Flows 

 
 
 For the years ended December
 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (in thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 Cash flows from operating
 activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net income (loss) for the year 
 
 
 
 $
 17,620.5 
 
 $
 (37,625.0
 ) 
 $
 (17,356.4
 ) 
 
 
 Adjustments for: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 
 
 8,257.9 
 
 
 2,692.9 
 
 
 1,282.2 
 
 
 
 
 Impairment charge (reversal of impairments) 
 
 7 
 
 
 (15,002.0
 ) 
 
 35,602.6 
 
 
 11,996.7 
 
 
 
 Net (gain)/Loss on sale
 of royalty interest 
 
 14 
 
 
 (59.3
 ) 
 
 (2,374.3
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Loss on
 sale of available-for-sale asset 
 
 
 
 
 299.2 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Investment write-off 
 
 14 
 
 
 50.0 
 
 
 650.0 
 
 
 150.0 
 
 
 
 Interest
 
 
 12 
 
 
 946.8 
 
 
 1,196.3 
 
 
 1,133.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Changes in other assets
 and liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Prepaid expenses and
 sundry deposits 
 
 
 
 
 (99.6
 ) 
 
 3.4 
 
 
 136.1 
 
 
 
 Other
 assets 
 
 
 
 
 667.6 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Receivable from/payable
 to affiliates 
 
 
 
 
 (58.5
 ) 
 
 202.2 
 
 
 20.0 
 
 
 
 Accounts
 payable 
 
 
 
 
 (501.5
 ) 
 
 (288.3
 ) 
 
 59.5 
 
 
 
 Interest paid 
 
 
 
 
 (2,702.8
 ) 
 
 (508.0
 ) 
 
 (186.7
 ) 
 
 
 Cash (used in) provided by operating activities 
 
 
 
 
 9,418.3 
 
 
 (448.2
 ) 
 
 (2,765.5
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash flow from investing
 activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Proceeds from sale of
 investments 
 
 
 
 
 365.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Proceeds
 from sale of royalty interest 
 
 
 
 
 3,003.8 
 
 
 17,207.2 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Proceeds from disposal of
 other investments 
 
 6 
 
 
 2,936.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Other
 investments 
 
 6 
 
 
 (403.8
 ) 
 
 (25,000.0
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Acquisition of royalty
 and stream interest 
 
 
 
 
 (60,516.4
 ) 
 
 (251,665.0
 ) 
 
 (28,150.0
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash (used in) provided by investing activities 
 
 
 
 
 (54,615.1
 ) 
 
 (259,457.8
 ) 
 
 (28,150.0
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash flow from financing activities

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Repayment
 of notes payable 
 
 
 
 
 (10,867.8
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (332.2
 ) 
 
 
 Funds provided by
 non-controlling interests 
 
 
 
 
 3,049.1 
 
 
 13,372.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Net
 parent investment 
 
 
 
 
 57,179.0 
 
 
 247,858.2 
 
 
 31,796.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 49,360.3 
 
 
 261,230.6 
 
 
 31,463.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net change in cash and
 cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 
 4,163.5 
 
 
 1,324.6 
 
 
 548.3 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 
 
 
 
 1,951.4 
 
 
 626.8 
 
 
 78.5 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
 
 
 
 $
 6,114.9 
 
 $
 1,951.4 
 
 $
 626.8 
 

 
 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these
 combined financial statements 
 Page | 6 
F-7

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Combined Statement
 of Changes in Net Parent Investment 

 
 
 
 
 Net Parent 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investment 
 
 
 
 Balance as of January 1,
 2014 
 $
 152,347.7 
 
 
 
 Net
 income (loss) 
 
 (17,356.4
 ) 
 
 
 Net parent
 investment 
 
 31,796.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance as of December 31,
 2014 
 $
 166,787.3 
 
 
 
 Net
 income (loss) 
 
 (37,709.0
 ) 
 
 
 Net parent
 investment 
 
 247,858.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance as of December 31,
 2015 
 $
 376,936.5 
 
 
 
 Net
 income (loss) 
 
 17,543.5 
 
 
 
 Net parent
 investment 
 
 57,179.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance as of December 31, 2016 
 $
 451,659.0 
 

 
 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these
 combined financial statements 
 Page | 7 
F-8

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 1 - Basis of Presentation 
The Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP (“Fund I”) is an
investment limited partnership formed on April 18, 2011 pursuant to the Limited
Partnership Act, 1883 and Exempted Partnerships Act, 1992 of Bermuda. Fund I
commenced operations on March 30, 2012. Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP
(“Fund I-A”) is an investment limited partnership formed on March 11, 2014
pursuant to the Limited Partnership Act, 1883 and Exempted Partnerships Act,
1992 of Bermuda. Fund I-A commenced operations on March 31, 2014. Fund I invests
in a number of royalties and streams and other interests in the mining sector,
and since March 31, 2014 has co-invested with Fund I-A on all new investments.

On June 4, 2017, pursuant to an Acquisition Agreement between
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. (“Osisko”) and Fund I, Fund I-A and various
controlled entities of the Funds (the “Funds”), Osisko agreed to purchase a
portfolio of investments (the “Orion Portfolio” or the “Portfolio”) comprising
61 royalties, 7 precious metal offtakes and 6 streams owned by the Funds (“the
Entity”). 
These combined financial statements of the Entity represent the
activities, assets and liabilities of the Orion Portfolio on a “carve-out”
basis, rather than the representing the legal structure. For all periods
presented in these combined financial statements, the economic activities
related to the Orion Portfolio are combined as they were under common control.
The combined financial statements of the Entity have been prepared for the
purpose of presenting the financial position, results of operations and cash
flows of the Orion Portfolio on a stand-alone basis.
Where appropriate, certain transactions and balances have been
attributed to the Orion portfolio based on specific identification or
allocation. This allocation has been completed based on the following general
process: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Receivables and payables: unless balances could be
 specifically assigned, these are allocated across all investments
 according to the fair market value of the investments. 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cash or cash equivalent balances: unless they are in an
 account held by a controlled subsidiary that is subject to the Acquisition
 Agreement, these are not allocated to the Entity. 
 
 
 • 
 
 Management fee expenses and payables are allocated
 according to the respective cost of investments. 
 
 
 • 
 
 Other general and administrative expenses: unless they
 can be specifically assigned, these are allocated across all investments
 according to the fair market value of the investments.

The combined financial statements may not be indicative of the
Entity’s future performance and they do not necessarily reflect what its
combined results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have
been had the Entity operated as an independent entity and had it presented
stand-alone financial statements during the periods presented. 
Page | 8 
F-9

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 2 –Statement of Compliance and Initial Adoption of IFRS

These combined financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), International
Accounting Standards (“IAS”s) and interpretations issued by the IFRS
Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”s) and the former Standing Interpretations
Committee (“SIC”s). These are the Entity’s first annual combined financial
statements prepared under IFRS and have been prepared in accordance with IFRS
1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRS1”). The Entity’s date of transition to IFRS is January 1, 2014 (the
“Transition Date”). 
IFRS does not provide guidance for the preparation of carve-out
financial statements, and accordingly in preparing the carve-out combined
financial statements, certain accounting conventions commonly used for the
preparation of historical financial statements have been applied. The carve-out
combined financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the basis of
preparation and accounting policies set out below. 
Prior to the adoption of IFRS, Fund I and Fund I-A and most of
its investee funds, were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (“USGAAP”) which differs in some material respects from
IFRS. The Transition Date balance sheet and the comparative amounts have been
restated to reflect the accounting policies at December 31, 2016.
Certain optional exemptions and certain mandatory exceptions as
applicable for first-time IFRS adopters have been applied in preparing the
Financial Information of the Entity. Estimates made in preparing the Financial
Information reflect the facts and circumstances which existed at the time such
estimates were made. 
The following optional exemptions of IFRS 1 have been applied
in preparing the combined financial statements. 

 
 
 (i) 
 
 IFRS 1 permits cumulative translation gains and losses to
 be reset to zero upon transition to IFRS. Cumulative foreign currency
 translation gains are reset to zero in opening Net Parent’s Investment at
 the Transition Date.
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 IFRS 1 permits an entity to use fair value in its opening
 IFRS statement of financial position as deemed cost an item of property,
 plant and equipment.
Since no financial statements of the
Entity have previously been prepared, the Financial Information set out in this
report do not include any IFRS first time adoption reconciliations. 
These combined financial statements were approved for issuance
by the Board of Directors on June 17, 2017.
The combined financial statements are presented in United
States dollars with all tabular amounts rounded to the nearest thousand unless
otherwise indicated. 
Page | 9 
F-10

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 3 - Significant Accounting Policies 
(a) Principles of combination 
The combined financial statements comprise the carve-out
financial statements of the Funds. 
All intercompany accounts, transactions, income and expenses,
and profits or losses have been eliminated on combination. The Entity
consolidates subsidiaries or investee funds where it has the ability to exercise
control. Where the Entity’s interest is less than 100%, the Entity recognizes
non-controlling interests. The Entity conducts a portion of its business through
a joint operation. The Entity recognizes in the combined financial statements
its share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the joint
operation.
The combined financial statements of the Entity include the
following subsidiaries where the Entity’s interest is less than 100%. 

 
 
 Subsidiary 
 % Ownership 
 Consolidation 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC 
 57.0 
 Pro rata consolidated 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited 
 78.3 
 Consolidated 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments III LP 
 87.8 
 Consolidated 
 
 
 Orion CO IV (SO)
 Limited 
 97.9
 
 Consolidated 
(b) Currency translation 
(i) Functional and presentation
currency 
These combined financial statements are
expressed in United States dollars, which is the functional currency of the
Entity and its subsidiaries.
(ii) Foreign currency transactions and
balances 
Foreign currency transactions are
translated into the functional currency of the respective subsidiary, using the
exchange rate prevailing at the dates of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains
and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and the
re-measurement of monetary items and available-for-sale securities at the date
of the consolidated statements of financial position are recognized in net
income. Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are translated into the
functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
(c) Royalty and stream interests 
Royalty and stream interests consist of acquired royalty
interests and stream metal purchase agreements in producing, development and
exploration stage properties. Royalty and stream interests are recorded at cost
and capitalized as tangible assets with finite lives. The cost of the asset is
determined with reference to the cost model under IAS 16 Property, Plant and
Equipment and includes the purchase price, and any closing costs directly
attributable to the acquisition of the assets. The purchase price of the asset
is the aggregate cash amount as well as the fair value of any other non-cash
consideration given to acquire the asset. In subsequent periods, the assets are
measured at cost less accumulated depletion and accumulated impairment
losses.
Page | 10 
F-11

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Producing royalty and stream interests are depleted using the
 units-of-production method over the life of the property to which the interest
 relates. The life of the property is estimated using life of mine models
 specifically associated with the royalty and stream properties which include
 proven and probable reserves and may include a portion of resources expected to
 be converted into reserves. Royalty and stream interests in development stage
and exploration stage properties are not amortized until production begins. 
(d) Impairment of non-financial assets 
Royalty and stream interests are reviewed for impairment if
there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment is assessed at the level of cash-generating units (“CGUs”) which, in
accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified as the
smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows, which are
largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets. This is usually at
the individual royalty and stream for each property from which cash inflows are
generated. 
An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the
asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of
fair value less costs of disposal (“FVLCD”) and value-in-use (“VIU”). The future
cash-flow expected is derived using estimates of proven and probable reserves, a
portion of resources that is expected to be converted into reserves and
information regarding the mineral properties that could affect the future
recoverability of the Entity’s interests. Discount factors are determined
individually for each asset and reflect their respective risk profiles. In
certain circumstances, the Entity may use a market approach in determining the
recoverable amount which may include an estimate of (i) net present value of
estimated future cash flows; and (ii) dollar value per ounce or pound or carat
of reserve/resource. Impairment losses are charged to the mineral interest.
Assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss
previously recognized may no longer exist. An impairment charge is reversed if
the conditions that gave rise to the recognition of an impairment loss are
subsequently reversed and the asset’s recoverable amount exceeds its carrying
amount. Impairment losses can be reversed only to the extent that the
recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have been
determined had no impairment been recognized previously. 
(e) Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized on
the Entity’s statement of financial position when the Entity has become a party
to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are
derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired
or have been transferred and the Entity has transferred substantially all risks
and rewards of ownership. The Entity’s financial instruments consist of cash and cash
equivalents, receivables, accounts payables, accrued liabilities, investments,
including equity investments and term deposits. Financial instruments are
recognized initially at fair value. 
Page | 11 
F-12

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

(i) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash
on hand, deposits held with banks and other short-term, highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less. Cash and cash
equivalents are classified as available-for-sale and measured at fair value.

(ii) Receivables 
Receivables, other than those related
to agreements with provisional pricing mechanisms, are classified as loans and
receivables and are initially recorded at fair value of the amount expected to
be received and subsequently measured at amortized cost less any provision for
impairment. 
Individual receivables are considered
for recoverability when they are past due or when other objective evidence is
received that a specific counterparty will default. Impairments for receivables
are presented in the consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income
(loss). 
(iii) Investments 
Investments comprise equity interests
in publicly-traded and privately-held entities, marketable securities with
original maturities at the date of the purchase of more than three months and a
loan receivable. 
Available-for-sale investments are
recognized initially at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequent to initial
recognition, available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value and
changes in the fair value are recognized directly in other comprehensive income
(loss), except for impairment losses, which are recognized in net income in the
consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income (loss). When an
available-for-sale investment is sold or impaired, the accumulated gains or
losses are reversed from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
included in other income (expense) or impairment of investments in the statement
of income and comprehensive income (loss). 
Where the Entity holds an investment in
a privately-held entity for which there is no active market and for which there
is no reliable estimate of fair value, the investment is carried at cost less
any provision for impairment. 
Translation differences on equity
securities classified as available-for-sale, are included in other comprehensive
income (loss). 
Derivative investments, such as
receivables related to agreements with provisional pricing mechanisms, are
classified as fair value through profit and loss and are recognized initially at
fair value. Subsequent to initial
recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value and changes in fair value
are recognized as other income (expenses) in the statement of income and
comprehensive income (loss). 
Page | 12 
F-13

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Loans receivable are classified as
loans and receivables because they have fixed or determinable payments and are
not quoted in an active market. Loans are measured at amortized cost using the
effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognized by
applying the effective interest rate method and presented as finance income in
the statement of income and comprehensive income (loss). 
(iv) Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities, including
accounts payable, accrued liabilities and debt, are classified as other
financial liabilities at amortized cost using the effective interest method.

(v) Impairment of financial assets 
The Entity assesses at each reporting
date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group
of financial assets is impaired. Financial assets are considered to be impaired
if objective evidence indicates that a change in the market, economic or legal
environment in which the Entity invested has had a negative effect on the
estimated future cash-flows of that asset. For equity securities classified as
available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value of the
security below its cost is also evidence that the assets may be impaired. If
such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative
loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current
fair value, is removed from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
recognized as an impairment on investments in net income in the statement of
income and other comprehensive income (loss). An impairment loss in respect of a
financial asset measured at amortized cost is calculated as the difference
between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future
cash-flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. 
Impairment losses are recognized in net
income. For financial assets measured at amortized cost, any reversal of
impairment is recognized in net income in subsequent periods if the fair value
of the financial assets increase and the increase can be objectively related to
an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in net income. If
the value of the previously impaired available-for-sale equity investment
subsequently recovers, additional unrealized gains are recorded in other
comprehensive income (loss) and the previously recorded impairment losses are
not reversed. 
(f) Revenue recognition 
Revenue comprises revenues from the sale of commodities
received under stream and offtake agreements and revenues earned directly from
royalty agreements. For royalty and offtake agreements, revenue recognition
occurs when the relevant commodity received from the operator is physically delivered and sold by the Entity to its third party
customers. Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or
receivable when management can reliably estimate the amount, pursuant to the
terms of the royalty. In some instances, the Entity will not have access to
sufficient information to make a reasonable estimate of revenue and,
accordingly, revenue recognition is deferred until management can make a
reasonable estimate. Differences between estimates and actual amounts are
adjusted and recorded in the period that the actual amounts are known. 
Page | 13 
F-14

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Gold and silver, including gold and silver received under
stream agreements, is sold primarily in the spot market. The sales price is
fixed at the delivery date based on the gold or silver spot prices. Generally,
the Entity records the sales at the time of physical delivery, which is also the
date that title to the gold or silver passes to the purchaser. 
(g) Costs of sales 
For stream agreements, the Entity purchases gold, silver or
diamonds for a cash payment of the lesser of a set contractual price, subject to
annual inflationary adjustments, and the prevailing market price per ounce of
gold and/or silver or carat of diamonds when purchased. Under certain stream
agreements, the Entity purchases gold and/or silver or carat of diamonds for a
cash payment that is a fixed percentage of the prevailing market price per ounce
of gold, silver or carat of diamonds when purchased. 
(h) Income taxes 
The income taxes associated with the Entity’s combined
financial statements have been calculated as if it had operated as a separate
taxpayer. Therefore, the income tax expense for the period is the amount of tax
payable or refundable based on the Entity’s hypothetical tax returns, and is
presented as current tax expense. 
Deferred income tax is determined using the expected manner of
recovering the accounting carrying value of assets and is recorded using the
assets and liabilities method, which compares the accounting and tax basis of
the Entity’s assets and liabilities and deferred taxes are recognized with
respect to the temporary differences between such basis.
No deferred taxes are recognized for the following temporary
differences: the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction
other than a business acquisition and that does not affect the accounting or tax
result, and differences related to investments in subsidiaries and joint
ventures to the extent it is probable that they will not be reversed in a
foreseeable future.
Deferred taxes are calculated using rates that are expected to
apply to temporary differences when they are reversed, based on enacted laws or
which have been substantially enacted at the reporting date. Deferred taxes are
calculated using rates that are expected to apply to temporary differences when
they are reversed, based on enacted laws or which have been substantially
enacted at the reporting date. The tax amounts recorded in the combined income
statements are not necessarily representative of the tax amounts that may arise
in the future. 
Page | 14 
F-15

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

New Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
On July 24, 2014, the IASB published the final version IFRS 9
Financial Instruments” (“IFRS 9”) which brings together the
classification, measurement, impairment and hedge accounting phases of the
IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement. IFRS 9 includes a loss impairment model, amends the
classification and measurement model for financial assets by adding a new fair
value through comprehensive income category for certain debt instruments and
provides additional guidance on how to apply the business model and contractual
cash flow characteristics test. This final version of IFRS 9 supersedes all
previous versions of IFRS 9 and is effective for periods beginning on or after
January 1, 2018. 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts
with Customers (“IFRS 15”). The new standard provides a comprehensive
framework for recognition, measurement and disclosure of revenue from contracts
with customers, excluding contracts within the scope of the standards on leases,
insurance contracts and financial instruments. IFRS 15 becomes effective for
annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and is to be applied
retrospectively with early adoption permitted. 
IFRS 16 Leases 
In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases (“IFRS
16”), which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities for most
leases. IFRS 16 becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after
January 1, 2019 and is to be applied retrospectively with early adoption
permitted, provided IFRS 15 has been applied or is applied at the same date as
IFRS 16. 
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance
Consideration 
In December 2016, the IASB issued IFRIC Interpretation 22
Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration which clarifies
that the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange
rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or
part of it) is the date on which an entity initially recognizes the non-monetary
asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance
consideration. The Interpretation is applicable for annual periods beginning on
or after January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted 
Management is
 currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9, IFRS 15, IFRS 16 and IFRIC 22 on the
 combined financial statements. 
Page | 15 
F-16

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 4 - Significant Judgments, Estimates and Assumptions
 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
accordance with IFRS requires the Entity to make judgments, estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting periods. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and
are based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and
circumstances, having regard to previous experience. However, actual outcomes
may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.

In particular, the areas which require management to make
significant judgments, estimates and assumptions in determining carrying values
are: 
Reserves and Resources 
Royalty and stream interests including royalties and streams
comprise a large component of the Entity’s assets and as such, the reserves and
resources of the properties to which the interests relate have a significant
effect on the Entity’s financial statements. These estimates are applied in
determining the depletion of and assessing the recoverability of the carrying
value of royalty and stream interests. In respect of these interests, the public
disclosures of reserves and resources that are released by the operators of
these interests involve assessments of geological and geophysical studies and
economic data and the reliance on a number of assumptions, including commodity
prices and production costs. These assumptions are, by their very nature,
subject to interpretation and uncertainty. 
The estimates of reserves and resources may change based on
additional knowledge gained subsequent to the initial assessment. Changes in the
estimates of reserves and resources may materially affect the recorded amounts
of depletion and the assessed recoverability of the carrying value of the
royalty and stream interests. 
Impairment of Royalty and Stream Interests 
Assessment of impairment of royalty and stream interests
requires the use of judgments, assumptions and estimates when assessing whether
there are any indicators that could give rise to the requirement to conduct a
formal impairment test on the Entity’s royalty and stream interests. The
assessment of fair values requires the use of estimates and assumptions for
recoverable production, long-term commodity prices, discount rates,
reserve/resource conversion, foreign exchange rates, future capital expansion
plans and the associated production implications. Changes in any of the
assumptions and estimates used in determining the fair value of the royalty and
stream interests, investments measured at cost, could impact the impairment
analysis. 
Page | 16 
F-17

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 5 - Cash and Cash Equivalents 
As at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, cash and cash
equivalents include short-term deposits, treasury bills, commercial paper,
bankers’ depository notes and bankers’ acceptances with terms to maturity of
less than three months. 

 
 
 
 
 December 31, 
 
 
 December 31, 
 
 
 December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 Cash 
 $
 1,729.2

 
 $
 219.5 
 
 $
 75.1 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 
 4,385.7 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Term deposits 
 
 - 
 
 
 1,731.9 
 
 
 551.7 
 
 
 
 
 $
 6,114.9 
 
 $
 1,951.4 
 
 $
 626.8 
 
Note 6 – Other Assets and Investments 
Other assets includes equity interests in public entities which
the Entity acquired through the open market or through other transactions.
As at December 31, 2016, the market value of certain of these
equity investments increased compared to their values at December 31, 2015 and
the Entity recorded a net unrealized gain of $105,700 (2015 - loss of $207,500
and 2014 – loss of $344,700). During 2016, certain equity investments have been
disposed of at a loss and as a result $552,200 was transferred from other
comprehensive income to profit or loss. 
In October 2015, the Entity issued a $25,000,000 loan to Rudnik
SASA, the operating company for the Sasa lead, zinc and silver mine. The loan
had a term of 2 ½ years with an interest rate of 3 month Libor + 1%. In
September 2016, Lynx Europe, the parent company of Rudnik SASA, made of payment
to the Entity of $3,145,900; $2,935,700 of which was applied to the $25,000,000
of principal and the remaining $210,000 was a payment of accrued interest.
Immediately thereafter, the Entity converted the then outstanding principal of
$22,064,000 into a silver stream. 
Page | 17 
F-18

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 7 – Royalty and Stream Interests, Net 
The following tables summarize the Entity’s royalty, stream and
offtake interests carrying values as at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014,
respectively: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2016 
 
 Cost 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 Impairment 
 
 
 Carrying Value 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 185,915.0
 
 
 $
 (6,945.8
 ) 
 $
 (33,609.7
 ) 
 $
 145,359.5
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 318,175.2 
 
 
 (5,419.5
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 312,755.7 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 508,227.5 
 
 $
 (12,365.3
 ) 
 $
 (33,609.7
 ) 
 $
 462,252.5 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2015 
 
 Cost 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 Impairment 
 
 
 Carrying Value 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 183,331.9
 
 
 $
 (4,107.5
 ) 
 $
 (25,486.3
 ) 
 $
 153,738.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 240,195.0 
 
 
 (1,155.6
 ) 
 
 (22,147.9
 ) 
 
 216,891.5 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 427,664.2 
 
 $
 (5,263.1
 ) 
 $
 (47,634.2
 ) 
 $
 374,766.9 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2014 
 
 Cost 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 Impairment 
 
 
 Carrying Value 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 187,377.8
 
 
 $
 (1,415.0
 ) 
 $
 (12,064.2
 ) 
 $
 173,898.6
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 191,515.1 
 
 $
 (1,415.0
 ) 
 $
 (12,064.2
 ) 
 $
 178,035.9 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2014 
 $
 159,177.5
 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 4,137.3

 
 $
 163,314.8
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 28,150.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 28,150.0 
 
 
 
 
 Disposals 
 
 (150.0
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 (150.0
 ) 
 
 
 
 Depletions 
 
 (1,282.2
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 (1,282.2
 ) 
 
 
 
 Impairments 
 
 (11, 996.7
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 (11,996.7
 ) 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2014 
 $
 173,898.6 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 178,035.9 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 2,350.0 
 
 
 249,315.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 251,665.0 
 
 
 
 
 Disposals 
 
 (6,363.3
 ) 
 
 (9,120.0
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (15,483.3
 ) 
 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 (2,692.5
 )

 
 (1,155.6
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 (3,848.1
 ) 
 
 
 
 Impairments 
 
 (13,454.7
 ) 
 
 (22,147.9
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (35,602.6
 ) 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2015 
 $
 153,738.1 
 
 $
 216,891.5 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 374,766.9 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 4,600.0 
 
 
 77,980.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 82,580.4 
 
 
 
 
 Disposals 
 
 (2,994.3
 )

 
 (0.2
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 (2,994.5
 ) 
 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 (2,838.4
 ) 
 
 (4,263.9
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (7,102.3
 ) 
 
 
 
 Impairments 
 
 (7,145.9
 ) 
 
 22,147.9 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 15,002.0 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2016 
 $
 145,359.5 
 
 $
 312,755.7 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 462,252.5 
 
Page | 18 
F-19

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

(a) Royalties, Streams and Offtakes 
Significant additions 2014
In March 2014, the Entity acquired a 3.0% net smelter return
royalty from Claude Resources, Inc. on the Seabee gold project for $12.0
million.
In May 2014, the Entity advanced the remaining $14 million for
the Pan royalty, as the mine operator met “conditions precedent”.
In July 2014, the Entity and its Co-Investors entered into a
$200.0 million diamond streaming agreement with Stornoway Diamond Corp. to
purchase 16% of the project’s output from the Renard 2, 3, 4, 9, and 65
kimberlites, and to the first 30 million carats produced from any ore bodies
forming part of Renard, including the above-mentioned kimberlites, at a price of
$50 per carat plus a 3% reimbursement of marketing expenses. This amount was
payable in tranches in 2014 and 2015. 
In December 2014, the Entity acquired a 0.75% NSR royalty from
Kiska Metals Corporation on the Whistler gold project in Alaska for $1.85
million. The Entity initially acquired a 2.0% NSR Royalty from Kennecott
Exploration on the Kiska Metals’ Whistler gold project in December 2012.
Pursuant to the $1.85M royalty transaction, Kiska agreed to expand the existing
2.0% NSR Royalty to a 2.75% NSR Royalty. 
Significant additions 2015
In March 2015, the Entity entered into a $17.23 million silver
streaming agreement with Aquila Resources Inc. to purchase 75% of the Aquila’s
output from the Back Forty mine project at a price of $4 per ounce. The amount
is payable based on Aquila achieving certain milestones. As at December 31,
2016, the Entity is committed to the remainder of the purchase price amounting
to $1,615,000. 
In September 2015, the Entity entered into a $150.0 million
gold stream agreement including BTO Midas LP (the Entity’s share was 50%) with
Pretium Resources Inc. (“Pretium”) in relation to the Brucejack project.
Also in September, the Entity signed a gold offtake agreement
to purchase 100% of the Brucejack project’s output with a backpricing option,
which allows the Entity to pay the lowest price for the gold based on a “look
back” option for a specified period of time pursuant to the offtake
agreement.
In September 2015, the Entity entered into a silver stream
agreement with Anglo American Norte (“Norte”) a subsidiary of Mantos Copper
(Bermuda) Limited for $82.5 million to pay 25% of prevailing prices for the
silver output from its Mantos Blancos mine.
In November 2015, the Entity entered into a (i) $37.5 million
stream agreement, and (ii) a gold offtake agreement to purchase 100% of the gold
output (up to 2.1 million ounces), deliverable under the stream agreement, with
a backpricing option from Lydian International Ltd., as part of a larger financing transaction in conjunction with Resource Capital
Funds (“RCF”). This amount was payable in 2015 and 2016. 
Page | 19 
F-20

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Significant disposals 2015:
In March 2015, Chalice Gold, the operator of the Cameron Lake
3% NSR royalty, exercised its option to repurchase 2% thereof for CAD$2.0
million, resulting in a realized loss of $1.84 million. Accordingly, the
Entity’s remaining positon is a 1% NSR royalty.
In April 2015, the Entity and its Co-Investors disposed of 25%
of its interest in the Renard diamond stream to BTO Shine LP for $15.5 million
resulting in a realized gain of $6.4 million. Accordingly, the Entity’s
effective percentage share of the Renard stream was reduced from 9.12% to 6.84%
. 
Significant additions 2016:
In January 2016, the Entity acquired a 3% NSR royalty from
Rassini, S.A.B. de C.V. on the Cerro del Gallo project operated by Primero for
USD $5,336,000.
In September 2016, the Entity and Rudnik SASA, the operator of
the Sasa polymetallic mine in Macedonia, converted the then outstanding loan
principal of $22.1 million (Note 6) into a silver stream agreement. The
agreement was for 100% of the mine’s silver output for a 40 year period (the
“Initial Term”), which term shall be automatically extended beyond the Initial
Term for successive 10-year periods. The silver is purchased at a fixed price of
$4 an ounce and is subject to price escalations of 3% or CPI per ounce,
whichever is higher, after 2016. 
(b) Provision for buyback and reduction election 
Pursuant to the terms of acquisition of various royalties and
streams, the royalty grantor or stream seller retains the right to buy back the
royalty or to elect for a reduction in the stream payable amounts for a cash
payment. Agreements containing such terms include the following: 
(i) Ambler royalty –
The royalty grantor has the right to buy back the royalty at
any time for a cash payment of $10,000,000. The carrying value of this royalty
at December 31, 2016 is $6.2 million. 
(ii) Amulsar gold and silver stream -
The stream seller may elect to reduce the amount of refined
gold and refined silver to be delivered and sold by the seller under the
agreement by 50% on either the second or the third anniversary of the commercial
production date, by making a cash payment of $50,000,000 on the date of such
second anniversary or $55,000,000 on the date of such third anniversary. The
carrying value of this stream at December 31, 2016 is $37.5 million. 
Page | 20 
F-21

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

(iii) Mantos silver stream -
Provided that not less than 1,990,000 ounces of refined silver
have been delivered by the seller, the seller may elect to make a cash payment
of $70,000,000 to reduce the amount of refined silver under the agreement by 50%
of the amount on only one of the third, fourth or fifth anniversary of the
Closing Date of September 11, 2015. The carrying value of this stream at
December 31, 2016 is $77.8 million 
(iv) Brucejack gold and silver stream -
The Entity has a 50% interest in the Brucejack stream, with a
carrying amount of $75,000,000 at December 31, 2016. On December 31, 2018, the
Seller has the right to pay each of the purchasers its share of $150,000,000
(Entity: $75,000,000) under the agreement to reduce the eligible metal
percentage to 3% from 8% from the delivery start date of January 1, 2019, or to
acquire each purchaser’s interest in the stream on payment of its share of
$237,000,000 (Entity: $118,500,000). If the Seller does not exercise the option
on December 31, 2018, it has the right to pay each of the purchaser its share of
$150,000,000 (Entity: $75,000,000) to reduce the eligible metal percentage to 4%
from 8% from the delivery start date of January 1, 2010, or to acquire each
purchaser’s interest in the stream on payment of its share of $272,000,000
(Entity: $136,000,000). 
(c) Impairments of Royalties and Streams 
Impairments in the carrying value of each individual royalty or
stream interest are measured and recorded to the extent that the carrying value
of each royalty or stream interest exceeds its estimated recoverable amount,
which is generally calculated using an estimate of future discounted cash flows.
As part of the Entity’s regular asset impairment analysis, which included the
presence of impairment indicators, the Entity recorded impairment charges and
reversals for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, as summarized in
the following table: 

 
 
 Impairments/(reversal of 
 
 Years ending December 31, 
 
 
 
 impairments) 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 Amulsar gold and silver
 stream 
 $
 (3,550.4
 )

 $
 3,550.4

 
 $
 - 
 
 
 
 Corcoesto royalty 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,000.0 
 
 
 
 Mantos silver stream 
 
 (16,118.7
 )

 
 16,118.7 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Oracle Ridge royalty 
 
 - 
 
 
 2,743.5 
 
 
 5,051.6 
 
 
 
 Pan royalty 
 
 1,660.2 
 
 
 9,495.5 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Renard diamond stream 
 
 (2,102.4
 ) 
 
 2,102.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Spring Valley royalty 
 
 2,061.1 
 
 
 (284.7
 )

 
 358.6 
 
 
 
 Unicorn royalty 
 
 247.8 
 
 
 2,620.9 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 2,800.4 
 
 
 (744.1
 ) 
 
 2,586.5 
 
 
 
 
 $
 (15,002.0
 )
 $ 
 35,602.6 
 
 $
 11,996.7 
 
Page | 21 
F-22

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Key assumptions and sensitivity 
During 2014, Oracle Mining Corp. (“OMN”), the operator of the
Oracle Ridge royalty, indicated they were experiencing financial difficulties.
During the fourth quarter of 2014, OMN closed a secured convertible loan
facility for $6.7 million with Vincere Resource Holdings LLC, a private entity
firm specializing in investing in late-stage mining projects. Due to a lack of
focus on development of the project, while OMN had been dealing with its
financial issues, the Entity took an impairment charge in 2014. In September,
2015, OMN announced that it was in default of certain milestone covenants
pursuant to the loan facility with Vincere. In December 2015, OMN announced it
was undergoing a receivership process, analogous to a bankruptcy case, that the
receiver will maintain the status quo at the mine while the receiver markets the
mine to potential buyers and negotiates terms with a bidder. In the same month,
the Canadian regulatory body halted trading of the common shares of the OMN on
the TSX Venture Exchange. Therefore, all the remaining investment in OMN has
been written off to $0. 
During 2014, Dart Ming NL (“DTM”), the operator of the Unicorn
royalty, announced the delay of the pre-feasibility study and environmental
approvals on the Unicorn mine project. In mid-2015, DTM delayed further drilling
until completion of a Project Study. The Study also indicated a very low strip
ratio and higher grades. Later in the year, DTM re-evaluated its mining plan to
the fall in molybdenum and copper prices. Accordingly, in November, 2015, DTM
announced they put the Unicorn mine on hold due to the price drop of molybdenum.
Accordingly, the Entity took an impairment charge during 2015. Additional
impairment charges were taken in 2016. 
In 2014, the Galician (Spain) provincial government indicated
to Edgewater Exploration Limited (“Edgewater”), the operator of the Corcoesto
royalty, that they would not allow the Corcoesto mine project to be permitted.
In addition in late 2014, the Galician provincial government passed a law that
any mining concession not in the permitting process will revert to the
provincial government. As a result of the above, Edgewater was not allowed to
enter the permitting process. Consequently, the Entity assigned a $0 value to
the royalty at December 31, 2014. 
In 2014, Barrick Gold Corp., the operator, in conjunction with
Midway Gold Corp, the mine owner of the Spring Valley royalty, delayed its
status and time required for permitting and mine construction for the Spring
Valley project. Accordingly the Entity pushed back the assumed first production
for the mine project 4 years (to Q1 2020). Accordingly, the Entity took an
impairment charge in 2014. During 2015, Midway filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection, and with Barrick, sold the Spring Valley operations to Waterton.
Based on the bankruptcy of Midway, the sale of Spring Valley to Waterton and
extended delays in advancing the project, the Entity adjusted its impairment
charges for both 2015 and 2016.
In June, 2015, Midway Gold, the operator of the Pan royalty,
issued a revised NI 43-101 Technical report 2015 feasibility study for the Pan
gold project with the production estimates significantly reduced from the
earlier filed report. In addition, Midway announced that it would file for
chapter 11 bankruptcy protection due to challenges at the Pan project. As a
result of the halt of mining due to the bankruptcy process and the revised
43-101 report, the Entity took an impairment charge in 2015. And due to lack of advancement in the Pan project
emerging from its bankruptcy proceedings, the Entity took an additional
impairment charge in 2016. 
Page | 22 
F-23

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

In the normal course of evaluating stream investments for
 possible impairment charges, the Entity models the projected cash flow generated
 from future production and prepares a net present value (“NPV”). A number of
 factors are used in this NPV analysis, including but not limited to (i) future
 prices of the underlying commodity, (ii) assumed discount rates, (iii) finance
 risk, (iv) country risk, (v) permitting and start up risk, and (vi) other risks.
 During 2015, the Amulsar gold and silver stream, the Mantos silver stream and
 the Renard diamond stream each incurred an impairment charge based on calculated
 NPVs below costs. All the factors which attributed to such a charge during 2015
 reversed during 2016, which resulted in the impairments being reversed in
2016.
The FVLCD was determined by calculating the net present value
(“NPV”) of the estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the
production of the appropriate metals or diamonds. The estimates of future cash
flows were derived from financial models developed by management using expected
cash flows and performance based on publicly released technical information to
predict future performance. Based on observable market or publicly available
data, the Entity’s management made assumptions of future commodity prices to
estimate future revenues. These price assumptions were supported by longer-term
consensus price estimates obtained from a sample of analysts and independent
reserve evaluators, where appropriate. The Entity’s management will also make
estimates of the expected level of production and period over which production
will be generated. The future cash-flows, taking into consideration also the
length of the quotational period if applicable, were discounted using an
after-tax discount rate which reflects specific market risk factors associated
with the associated metals or diamonds.
Note 8 - Fair Value Measurements 
The objective of a fair value measurement is to estimate the
price at which an orderly transaction to sell an asset or to transfer a
liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date
under current market conditions. For some assets and liabilities, observable
market transactions or market information might be available.
For other assets and liabilities, observable market
transactions and market information might not be available. The fair value
hierarchy establishes three levels to classify the inputs to valuation
techniques used to measure fair value. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices
(unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2
inputs are quoted prices in markets that are not active, quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities in active markets, inputs other than quoted prices
observable for the asset or liability (for example, interest rate and yield
curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, forward pricing curves used to
value currency and commodity contracts and volatility measurements used to value
option contracts), or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated
by observable market data or other means. Level 3 inputs are unobservable
(supported by little or no market activity). The fair value hierarchy gives the
highest priority to Level 1 inputs and the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs.

Page | 23 
F-24

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

The following table presents the Entity’s fair value hierarchy
for those investments carried at fair value as of December 31, 2016, 2015 and
2014. 

 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 significant 
 
 
 unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quoted prices 
 
 
 observable 
 
 
 inputs 
 
 
 Aggregate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Level 1) 
 
 
 inputs (Level 2) 
 
 
 (Level 3) 
 
 
 Fair Value 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 $
 4,385.7

 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 4,385.7

 
 
 
 
 Available-for-sale equity investments 
 
 502.2 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 502.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 4,887.9 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 4,887.9 
 

 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 significant 
 
 
 unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quoted prices 
 
 
 observable 
 
 
 inputs 
 
 
 Aggregate Fair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Level 1) 
 
 
 inputs (Level 2) 
 
 
 (Level 3) 
 
 
 Value 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 $
 1,731.9

 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 1,731.9

 
 
 
 
 Available-for-sale equity investments 
 
 132.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 132.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 1,864.5 
 
 $
 
 
 $
 
 
 $
 1,864.5 
 

 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quoted prices 
 
 
 significant 
 
 
 unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Level 1) 
 
 
 observable 
 
 
 inputs 
 
 
 Aggregate Fair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 inputs (Level 2)
 
 
 (Level 3) 
 
 
 Value 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 $
 551.7 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 551.7 
 
 
 
 
 Available-for-sale equity investments 
 
 340.2 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 340.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 891.9 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 891.9 
 
Fair Values of Financial Assets and Liabilities 
The fair value of the Entity’s remaining financial assets and
liabilities which include cash and cash equivalents, receivables, loans
receivables, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and debt approximate
their carrying values due to their short-term nature, and/or floating interest
rate on the debt. The fair values of these financial assets and liabilities
would be classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The Entity has
not offset financial assets with financial liabilities. 
Page | 24 
F-25

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

The valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value
are as follows: 
(a) Short-term investments 
The fair value of interest bearing cash deposits and treasury
bills is classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 
(b) Receivables 
The fair value of receivables arising from metal sales
contracts that contain provisional pricing mechanisms is determined using the
appropriate quoted forward price from the exchange that is the principal active
market for the particular metal. As such, these receivables are classified
within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
(c) Investments 
The fair value of publicly-traded investments, including
available-for-sale equity investments and warrants, is determined based on a
market approach reflecting the closing price of each particular security at the
statement of financial position date. The closing prices are a quoted market
price obtained from the exchange that is the principal active market for the
particular security, and therefore are classified within Level 1 of the fair
value hierarchy. 
Note 9 - Financial Risk Management 
The Entity’s financial instruments are comprised of financial
assets and liabilities. The Entity’s principal financial liabilities comprise
accounts payable, accrued liabilities and debt. The Entity’s principal financial
assets are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, receivables and
investments. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage
short-term cash flow and working capital requirements and fund future
acquisitions 
The Entity is engaged in the business of acquiring, managing
and creating resource royalties and streams. Royalties and streams are interests
that provide the right to revenue or production from the various properties.
These activities expose the Entity to a variety of financial risks, which
include direct exposure to market risks (which includes commodity price risk,
foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and
capital risk management. 
Management designs strategies for managing some of these risks,
which are summarized below. The Entity’s executive management oversees the
management of financial risks. The Entity’s executive management ensures that
its financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and
procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in
accordance with the Entity’s policies and risk appetite. 
The Entity’s overall objective from a risk management
perspective is to safeguard its assets and mitigate risk exposure by focusing on
security rather than yield. 
Page | 25 
F-26

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

(a) Market Risk 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as
commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the
value of the Entity’s financial instruments. The Entity is exposed to the
following market risks: 
Commodity Price Risk 
The Entity’s royalties and streams are subject to fluctuations
from changes in market prices of the underlying commodities. The market prices
of gold, silver and other metals or diamonds are the primary drivers of the
Entity’s profitability and ability to generate free cash flow. Substantially all
of the Entity’s future revenue is unhedged in order to provide stakeholders with
maximum exposure to changes in the market prices of these commodities. 
Foreign Exchange Risk 
The functional currencies of the Entity and its subsidiaries is
the U.S. dollar. As most of the Entity’s assets and liabilities are in the U.S.
dollar, the risk of which the Entity is exposed to currency fluctuations
relative to the U.S. dollar on balances and transactions that are denominated
and settled in other currencies are immaterial. 
Interest Rate Risk 
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a
financial instrument or cash-flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate
due to changes in market interest rates. Currently, the Entity’s interest rate
exposure arises mainly from the interest receipts on cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments ($6,114,900 as at December 31, 2016). 
Interest rate changes do not materially affect the Entity’s
financial assets and liabilities. 
(b) Credit Risk 
Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to
fulfill its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments,
receivables and loans receivables. The Entity closely monitors its financial
assets and maintains its cash deposits in several high-quality financial
institutions and as such does not have any significant concentration of credit
risk. 
As at December 31, 2016, the Entity is unaware of any
information which would cause it to believe that these financial assets are not
fully recoverable. 
(c) Liquidity Risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to
sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands. The Entity,
through the Funds, manages its exposure to liquidity risk through prudent
management of its statement of financial position, including maintaining
sufficient cash balances and access to undrawn credit facilities. The
Funds have in place a planning and budgeting process to help determine the funds
required to support the Funds’ normal operating requirements on an ongoing
basis. Management continuously monitors and reviews both actual and forecasted
cash-flows, including acquisition activities. 
Page | 26 
F-27

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

As at December 31, 2016, the Entity held $6,114,900 in cash and
 cash equivalents, or highly-liquid investments (December 31, 2015 - $1,951,400,
 December 31, 2014 - $626,800). All of the Entity’s financial liabilities are due
 within one year. The Entity’s near-term cash requirements include corporate
 administration costs, certain costs of sales, including the ore purchase
 commitments described in Note 16 and income taxes directly related to the
 recognition of royalty and stream interest revenues. In addition, the Entity is
 committed to fund purchases under its precious metals stream agreements as
described in Note 16.
(d) Capital Risk Management 
The Entity’s primary objective when managing capital is to
provide a sustainable return to investors through managing and growing the
Funds’ resource asset portfolio while ensuring capital protection. The Entity
defines capital as its cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
long-term investments which is managed by the Funds’ management, subject to
approved policies and limits by the Board of Directors of the Funds. 
There were no changes in the Funds’ approach to capital
management during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the prior years.
The Funds are not subject to material externally imposed capital requirements or
significant financial covenants or capital requirements with its limited
partners.
Note 10 - Revenue 
Revenue is comprised of the following: 

 
 
 
 
 
 Years ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 5,606.5

 
 $
 5,107.5

 
 $
 2,806.4

 
 
 
 
 Gold sales 
 
 10,789.9 
 
 
 2,282.4 
 
 
 432.4 
 
 
 
 
 Silver sales 
 
 22,795.0 
 
 
 15,991.0 
 
 
 4,290.0 
 
 
 
 
 Diamond sales 
 
 503.5 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 $
 39,694.9 
 
 $
 23,380.9 
 
 $
 7,528.8 
 
Page | 27 
F-28

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 11 - Costs of Sales 
Cost of sales is comprised of the following: 

 
 
 
 
 
 Years ending December 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of gold sales 
 $
 10,506.8
 
 
 $
 2,240.3

 
 $
 421.3 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of silver sales 
 
 11,734.0 
 
 
 15,459.5 
 
 
 4,095.2 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of diamond sales 
 
 133.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 $
 22,373.8 
 
 $
 17,699.8 
 
 $
 4,516.5 
 
Note 12 - Related Party Disclosures 
The Entity has amounts due to/from related parties in the
normal course of business. At December 31, 2016, $181,800 (2015: $222,200 and
2014: $20,000) was due to related parties, while $18,100 (2015: $nil and 2014:
$nil) was due from related parties. Amounts are non-interest bearing and are
payable on demand. 
On November 25, 2013, Orion Royalty Company, LLC (“ORC”), a
controlled entity of Fund I, issued a promissory note of US$5,600,000 to RK Mine
Finance Trust. The note bears interest at 3-month US$ LIBOR (Reuters) subject to
a 2% minimum, plus 8% and matures on or before December 31, 2016. An identical
promissory note was issued to Orion MF Investment Holding Company 1 (Cayman)
Limited, another controlled entity of Fund I. Both notes were redeemed by ORC on
December 16, 2016. 
Note 13 - Income Taxes 
Current income tax represents the amounts payable historically
that were in respect of the Entity. 
No deferred tax liabilities have been recorded in the financial
statements principally as a result of the application of the Initial Recognition
Exemption and the offsetting of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
levied by the same taxation authority where the Entity has the legal right and
intent to offset. 
Page | 28 
F-29

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 14 – Other Gains and Losses 
Other gains and losses include: 

 
 
 
 
 
 Years ending December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Gains on disposals of royalty
 interests 
 $
 59.3 
 
 $ 
 2,374.3 
 
 $
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Royalty interests and other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 investments written off 
 
 (50.0
 ) 
 
 (650.0
 ) 
 
 (150.0
 ) 
 
 
 
 Loss on disposal of asset available for 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 sale investment 
 
 (299.0
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 (51.4
 ) 
 
 (0.8
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 $
 (341.1
 ) 
 $ 
 1,723.5 
 
 $
 (150.0
 ) 
Note 15 – Interests of Non-Controlling Interests 
In 2015, the Entity and other co-investors set up the following
entities which provided funds to acquire interests in certain streams and
offtakes. The following table shows the share of the non-controlling interests
in the investments, as well as their share of the revenue and costs directly
related to the investments. 

 
 
 As at December 31,
 2016 
 
 Non- 
 
 
 
 
 controlling 
 
 
 Subsidiary 
 
 Jurisdiction 
 interest 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited

 Bermuda 
 21.7% 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments III LP 
 Bermuda 
 12.2% 
 
 
 Orion Co IV (SO) Limited 
 Bermuda 
 2.1% 
Material amounts directly attributable
to the investments for 2016: 

 
 Subsidiary 
 Assets 
 Revenue 
 Cost 
 
 Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited

 16,250.0 
 -

 - 
 
 Orion Co-Investments III LP 
 2,623.2 
 186.2 
 116.4 
 
 Orion Co IV (SO) Limited 
 787.5 
 16.0 
 74.6 
 
 Material amounts directly attributable to the
 investments for 2015: 
 

 
 Subsidiary 
 Assets 
 Revenue 
 Cost
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited

 16,250.0 
 - 
 - 
 
 Orion Co-Investments III (Stream) Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 Orion Co IV (SO) Limited 
 253.6 
 - 
 74.6 
Page | 29 
F-30

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 16 – Commitments and Obligations 
Metal purchase commitments. The following table summarizes the
Entity’s commitments to pay for gold, silver and diamonds to which it has the
contractual right pursuant to the associated precious metals and diamond
purchase agreements: 

 
 
 
 
 Attributable Payable Production to 
 
 
 Per Ounce/Carat Cash Payment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 be Purchased 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Term of 
 
 
 Date of 
 
 
 
 Interest 
 
 Gold 
 
 
 Silver 
 
 
 Diamond 
 
 
 Gold 
 
 
 Silver 
 
 
 Diamond 
 
 
 Agreement 
 
 
 Contract 
 
 
 
 Amulsar1 
 
 142,454 
 
 
 694,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 $400 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 years 
 
 
 Nov 25, 2015 
 
 
 
 Back Forty 
 
 
 
 
 75% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOM 
 
 
 Mar 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 Brucejack2 
 
 100% 
 
 
 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 $400 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dec 31, 2019 
 
 
 Sept 21, 2015 
 
 
 
 Mantos 
 
 
 
 
 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 25% spot 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dec 31, 2029 
 
 
 Sept 11, 2015 
 
 
 
 Renard3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6.84% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $50 
 
 
 40 years 
 
 
 Jul 8, 2014 
 
 
 
 SASA4 
 
 
 
 
 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $5 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 years 
 
 
 Nov3, 2015 
 

 
 
 1. 
 
 6.75% of gold and 100% of silver production up to the
 production maximum. Also subject to multiple buyback options: 50% for $50
 million and $55 million on 2nd and 3rd anniversary
 of production start date, respectively, which is currently expected to be
 July 1, 2018. 1% inflation price escalation after 2nd
 anniversary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 Subject to multiple buyback options: 12/31/2018 pursuant
 to a 15% internal rate of return to the Entity or 12/31/2019 for $75
 million + 3% ongoing stream. If buyback not exercised by 12/31/2019, $20
 million make- whole payment + 8% ongoing stream.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 The Entity holds a Stream agreement, which gives it the
 right to 6.84% of diamond production. The term shall be automatically
 extended beyond the initial term for successive 10-year periods.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 Term shall be automatically extended beyond initial term
 for successive 10-year periods. 3% or CPI per ounce price escalation after
 2016.
Page | 30 
F-31

Management's Discussion and Analysis For the year
ended December 31, 2016 

 
 The following management discussion and analysis
 (“MD&A”) relates to the audited combined
 financial statements and related notes as at and for the years
 ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (the “Combined Financial
 Statements”) of a portfolio of royalty, stream and
 offtake investments (the “Entity”) owned and/or
 controlled by Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP (“Fund
 I”) and Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP
 (“Fund I-A ”) (collectively, the
 “Funds”), and should be read with the Combined
 Financial Statements. The information included in this MD&A is
 as of June 16, 2017, the date of the Combined Financial Statements. All
 monetary amounts included in this MD&A are expressed in U.S.
 dollars, the Entity’s reporting currency, unless otherwise noted.
 
Description of the Business 
Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP (“Fund I”) is an
exempted partnership and a limited partnership formed on April 18, 2011 pursuant
to the laws of Bermuda. Fund I commenced operations on March 30, 2012. Orion
Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP (“Fund I-A”) is an exempted partnership
and a limited partnership formed on March 11, 2014 pursuant to the laws of
Bermuda. Fund I-A commenced operations on March 31, 2014. Fund I invests in a
number of royalties and streams and other interests in the mining sector, and
since March 31, 2014 has co-invested with Fund I-A on all new investments. The
Entity constitutes a portfolio of royalties, streams and offtakes owned and/or
controlled by the Funds. 
On June 4, 2017, pursuant to an Acquisition Agreement among
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. (“Osisko”), Fund I, Fund I-A, Orion
Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC, Orion Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments
IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited and Lynx Metals Limited, Osisko agreed to purchase
a portfolio of investments comprising 61 royalties, 7 precious metal offtakes
and 6 streams owned, directly or indirectly, or controlled by Fund I and Fund
I-A (the “Portfolio”). 
The Entity’s audited combined financial statements and related
notes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (the “Combined
Financial Statements”) represent the activities, assets and liabilities
of the Portfolio on a “carve-out” basis, rather than the representing the legal
structure. For all periods presented in the Combined Financial Statements, the
economic activities related to the Portfolio are combined as they were under
common control. The Combined Financial Statements of the Entity have been
prepared for the purpose of presenting the financial position, results of
operations and cash flows of the Portfolio on a stand-alone basis. 
Basis of Presentation of Combined Financial Statements

The Combined Financial Statements have been prepared in
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, International
Accounting Standards and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations
Committee and the former Standing Interpretations Committee. IFRS does not
provide guidance for the preparation of carve-out financial statements, and
accordingly in preparing the carve-out combined financial statements, certain
accounting conventions commonly used for the preparation of historical financial
statements have been applied. The Combined Financial Statements represent the
activities, assets and liabilities of the Portfolio on a “carve-out” basis,
rather than the representing the legal structure. For all periods presented in
these combined financial statements, the economic activities related to the
Portfolio are combined as if they were under common control, regardless of legal
structures. These are the Entity’s first annual combined financial statements
prepared under IFRS and have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 1 First-time
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. 
Portfolio of Royalty and Stream Interests, Net
The following tables summarize the Entity’s royalty, stream and
offtake interests’ carrying values as at December 31, 2016: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2016 
 
 Cost 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 Impairment 
 
 
 Carrying Value 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 185,915.0
 
 
 $
 (6,945.8
 )

 $
 (33,609.7
 )

 $
 145,359.5
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 318,175.2 
 
 
 (5,419.5
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 312,755.7 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 508,227.5 
 
 $
 (12,365.3
 ) 
 $
 (33,609.7
 ) 
 $
 462,252.5 
 
F-32

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 December 31,
 2016 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2016 
 $
 153,738.1
 
 
 $
 216,891.5
 
 
 $
 4,137.3

 
 $
 374,766.9
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 4,600.0 
 
 
 77,980.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 82,580.4 
 
 
 
 
 Disposals 
 
 (2,994.3
 ) 
 
 (0.2
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (2,994.5
 ) 
 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 (2,838.4
 ) 
 
 (4,263.9
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (7,102.3
 ) 
 
 
 
 Impairments 
 
 (7,145.9
 ) 
 
 22,147.9 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 15,002.0 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2016 
 $
 145,359.5 
 
 $
 312,755.7 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 462,252.5 
 
Summary of Significant Royalty and Stream Interests 

 
 Asset 
 Operator 
 Country 
 Commodity 
 Investment Type 
 Stage 
 
 Ambler 
 Trilogy 
 USA 
 Cu, Pb, Zn 
 1% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Amulsar 
 Lydian International 
 Armenia 
 Au 
 Stream & Offtake 
 Construction 
 
 Back Forty 
 Aquila Resources 
 USA 
 Ag 
 Stream 
 Pre-feasibility 
 
 Bald Mtn. Alligator Ridge 
 Kinross 
 USA 
 Au 
 1% NSR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Bald Mtn. Duke/ Trapper 
 Kinross 
 USA 
 Au 
 4% NSR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Brauna 
 Lipari 
 Brazil 
 Dia 
 1% GRR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Brucejack 
 Pretium Resources 
 Canada 
 Au 
 Stream & Offtake 
 Construction 
 
 Cameron Lake 
 First Mining 
 Canada 
 Au 
 1% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Casino 
 Western Copper & Gold 
 Canada 
 Au, Ag, Cu 
 1.25% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Cerro Del Gallo 
 Primero Mining 
 Mexico 
 Au, Ag 
 3% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Dolphin (King Island) 
 King Island Scheelite 
 Australia 
 Tu 
 1.5% GRR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Gold Rock 
 GRP Minerals 
 USA 
 Au 
 4% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Gurupi 
 Avanco 
 Brazil 
 Au 
 0.75% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Kwale 
 Base Resources 
 Kenya 
 Il, Ru, Zi 
 1.5% GRR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Mantos Blancos & Mantoverde 
 Mantos Copper Holdings 
 Chile 
 Ag 
 Stream 
 Production 
 
 Matilda 
 Blackham Resources 
 Australia 
 Au 
 Offtake 
 Production 
 
 Nimbus 
 MacPhersons Resources 
 Australia 
 Au, Ag 
 Offtake 
 Exploration 
 
 Northern Dancer 
 Largo 
 Canada 
 Au, Ag, Cu 
 1% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Pan 
 GRP Minerals 
 USA 
 Au 
 4% NSR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Parral 
 GoGold Resources 
 Mexico 
 Au 
 Offtake 
 Production 
 
 Renard 
 Stornoway Diamonds 
 Canada 
 Dia 
 Stream 
 Production 
 
 San Ramon 
 Red Eagle Mining Corp. 
 Colombia 
 Au 
 Offtake 
 Production 
 
 Sao Jorge 
 GoldMining 
 Brazil 
 Au 
 1.25% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Sasa 
 Lynx mining 
 Macedonia 
 Ag 
 Stream 
 Production 
 
 Seabee 
 Silver Standard 
 Canada 
 Au 
 3% NSR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Spring Valley 
 Waterton 
 USA 
 Au 
 0.5% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Unicorn 
 DART Mining 
 Australia 
 Mo, Cu, Ag 
 2% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Whistler 
 GoldMining 
 USA 
 Au, Ag 
 2.75% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Yenipazar 
 Aldridge Minerals Inc. 
 Turkey 
 Au 
 Offtake 
 Exploration 
2
F-33

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 December 31,
 2016 
 

Selected Financial Information(1)

(in thousands of US dollars) 

 
 
 
 
 For the Years Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 40,541.2 
 
 
 24,071.1 
 
 
 8,081.5 
 
 
 
 Operating income (loss) 
 
 18,946.5 
 
 
 (36,036.2
 ) 
 
 (15,955.9
 ) 
 
 
 Net income (loss) 
 
 17,620.5 
 
 
 (37,625.0
 ) 
 
 (17,356.4
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total assets 
 
 469,125.6 
 
 
 403,784.8 
 
 
 179,144.6 
 
 
 
 Total notes payable 
 
 - 
 
 
 10,867.8 
 
 
 10,867.8 
 
 
 
 Operating cash flows 
 
 9,418.3 
 
 
 (448.2
 ) 
 
 (2,765.5
 )

 
 
 (1) 
 
 Unless otherwise noted, financial information is in U.S.
 dollars and prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Overview of Financial Results 
Financial Summary – 2016 

 
 
 • 
 
 Revenues of $40.5 million compared to $24.1 million in
 2015; 
 
 
 • 
 
 Operating income of $18.9 million compared to operating
 loss of $36.0 million in 2015; 
 
 
 • 
 
 Net income of $17.6 million compared to net loss of $37.6
 million for 2015; 
 
 
 • 
 
 Net cash flows provided by operating activities of $9.4
 million compared to net cash used in operating activities of $0.5 million
 in 2015. 
Revenues increased in 2016 by $16.4 million primarily due to
the commencement of deliveries under the Mantos Blanco silver stream, which
contributed $12.5 million, as well as the commencement of deliveries under the
Sasa stream and commencement of the Matilda offtake, which accounted for an
increase of $3.3 million and $1.6 million respectively. Royalty income increased
approximately $0.5 million in total. 
In 2016, operating income amounted to $18.9 million compared to
a loss of $36.0 million in 2015. The increase of $54.9 million in net operating
income in 2016 is mainly attributable to the reversal of previously impaired
royalty and stream interests ($16.1 million for the Mantos silver stream; $3.6
million for the Amulsar stream; and $2.1 million on the Renard stream) as well
as the higher revenues generated from the sale of gold, silver and diamonds
($15.8 million), and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset
by a $4.7 million increase in the cost of sales, and an increase in depletion
expense of royalty and stream interests ($5.6 million). 
The increase in net income of $55.2 million in 2016 as compared
to 2015 is mainly the result of an increase of $55.0 million in operating income
as explained above. 
Net cash flows provided by operating activities increased $9.4
million in 2016 as a result of higher revenues and operating income when
compared to 2015. 
3 
F-34

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 December 31,
 2016 
 

Combined Statements of Income 
The following table presents summarized combined statements of
income for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands of dollars):

 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 40,541.2
 
 
 
 24,071.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchased cost of gold, silver & diamonds
 
 
 22,373.8 
 
 
 17,699.8 
 
 
 
 Depletion of royalty and stream interests 
 
 8,257.9 
 
 
 2,692.5 
 
 
 
 Impairment/(reversal) of royalty and stream
 interests 
 
 (15,002.0
 ) 
 
 35,602.6 
 
 
 
 General and administrative 
 
 5,451.1 
 
 
 5,637.8 
 
 
 
 Other expenses 
 
 172.8 
 
 
 198.1 
 
 
 
 Other (gains) / losses 
 
 341.1 
 
 
 (1,723.5
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating income 
 
 18,946.5
 
 
 
 (36,036.2
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other income/(expense), net 
 
 (943.9
 ) 
 
 (1,192.3
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income before income taxes 
 
 18,002.6
 
 
 
 (37,228.5
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income tax expense 
 
 382.1 
 
 
 396.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net income/(loss) 
 
 17,620.5 
 
 
 (37,625.0
 ) 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
As at December 31, 2016, the Entity’s cash and cash equivalents
amounted to $6.1 million compared to $2.0 million as at December 31, 2015. 
The Entity’s near-term cash requirements are limited to (i)
general and administrative expenses, and (ii) the costs associated with the sale
of assets to Osisko, including outside legal, audit, banking and other
professional fees. 
Cash Flows 
Operating Activities 
Cash flows provided by operating activities in 2016 amounted to
$9.4 million, compared to use of cash in operating activities of $0.5 million in
2015.
The increase in 2016 compared to 2015 is mainly due to higher
revenues from the sale of gold, silver and diamonds pursuant to stream and
offtake agreements, as well as a slight increase in royalties earned compared to
the previous year. 
Investing Activities 
Cash flows used by investing activities were $54.6 million in
2016, compared to cash used for investing activities in 2015 of $259.5 million.
The decrease $204.9 million was mainly attributable to the reduced acquisitions
as Fund I and Fund I-A reached the end of their investing period, which ended on
December 13, 2016. 

4 
F-35

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 December 31,
 2016 
 

Financing Activities
The cash inflows provided by financing activities during 2016
 and 2015 were $49.4 million and $261.2 million respectively, and are primarily
 attributable to Fund I and Fund I-A providing the necessary investment capital
 to acquire the assets held in the Portfolio. 
Related Party Transactions 
The Portfolio has amounts due to/from related parties in the
normal course of business. At December 31, 2016, $181,800 (2015: $222,200) was
due to related parties, while $18,100 (2015: $nil) was due from related parties.
Amounts are non-interest bearing and are payable on demand. 
On November 25, 2013, Orion Royalty Company, LLC
(“ORC”), a controlled entity of Fund I, issued a promissory note of
US$5,600,000 to RK Mine Finance Trust a third party. The note bears interest at
3-month US$ LIBOR (Reuters) subject to a 2% minimum, plus 8% and matures on or
before December 31, 2016. An identical promissory note was issued to Orion MF
Investment Holding Company 1 (Cayman) Limited, another controlled entity of Fund
I. Both notes were redeemed by ORC on December 16, 2016. 
Contractual Obligations and Commitments 
The following table summarizes commitments to pay for gold,
silver and diamonds to which Portfolio entities have the contractual right
pursuant to the associated precious metals and diamond purchase agreements: 

 
 
 
 
 Attributable
 Payable Production to 
 
 
 Per Ounce/Carat
 Cash Payment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 be Purchased 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Term of 
 
 
 Date of 
 
 
 
 Interest 
 
 Gold 
 
 
 Silver 
 
 
 Diamond 
 
 
 Gold 
 
 
 Silver 
 
 
 Diamond 
 
 
 Agreement 
 
 
 Contract 
 
 
 
 Amulsar1 
 
 142,454 
 
 
 694,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 $400 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 years 
 
 
 Nov 25, 2015 
 
 
 
 Back Forty 
 
 
 
 
 75% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOM 
 
 
 Mar 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 Brucejack2 
 
 100% 
 
 
 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 $400 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dec 31, 2019 
 
 
 Sept 21, 2015 
 
 
 
 Mantos3 
 
 
 
 
 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 25% spot 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dec 31, 2029 
 
 
 Sept 11, 2015 
 
 
 
 Renard4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6.84% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $50 
 
 
 40 years 
 
 
 Jul 8, 2014 
 
 
 
 SASA5 
 
 
 
 
 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $5 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 years 
 
 
 Nov 3, 2015 
 

 
 1. 
 
 6.75% of gold and 100% of silver production up to the
 production maximum. Also subject to multiple buyback options: 50% for $50
 million and $55 million on 2nd and 3rd anniversary
 of production start date, respectively, which is currently expected to be
 July 1, 2018. 1% inflation price escalation after 2nd
 anniversary.
 
 2. 
 
 Subject to multiple buyback options: 12/31/2018 pursuant
 to a 15% internal rate of return to the Portfolio or 12/31/2019 for $75
 million + 3% ongoing stream. If buyback not exercised by 12/31/2019, $20
 million make-whole payment + 8% ongoing stream.
 
 3. 
 
 As a condition to closing the transaction with Osisko,
 the Mantos silver stream agreement is expected to be amended to extend the
 stream for the life of mine and the stream percentage shall be payable on
 100% of silver until 19,300,000 ounces have been delivered, after which
 the stream percentage will be 30%.
 
 4. 
 
 The Entity holds a Stream agreement, which gives it the
 right to 6.84% (9.6% including co investors) of diamond production. The
 term shall be automatically extended beyond the initial term for
 successive 10-year periods.
 
 5. 
 
 Term shall be automatically extended beyond initial term
 for successive 10-year periods. 3% or CPI per ounce price escalation after
 2016.
Off-balance Sheet Items 
There are no off-balance sheet arrangements. 
Risks and Uncertainties 
Portfolio entities hold royalty, stream and offtake investments
and operate in an industry that is dependent on a number of factors that include
environmental, legal, operational/execution, financing and political risks, the
discovery of economically recoverable reserves and the ability of
third-parties to develop, construct and operate assets and to maintain
production in an economically feasible production. If any of these risks occur,
or if others occur, the Entity’s operating results and financial condition could
be seriously harmed and investors may lose a significant proportion of their
investment. In addition, the Entity is exposed to the following financial risks: 
5 
F-36

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 December 31,
 2016 
 

Commodity Price Risk 
The Entity’s royalties and streams are subject to fluctuations
from changes in market prices of the underlying commodities. The market prices
of gold, silver and other metals or diamonds are the primary drivers of the
Entity’s profitability and ability to generate free cash flow. Substantially all
of the Entity’s future revenue is unhedged in order to provide stakeholders with
maximum exposure to changes in the market prices of these commodities. 
Foreign Exchange Risk 
The functional currency of the Portfolio is the U.S. dollar. As
most of the Portfolio assets and liabilities are in the U.S. dollars, the risk
of which the Portfolio is exposed to currency fluctuations relative to the U.S.
dollar on balances and transactions that are denominated and settled in other
currencies are immaterial. 
Interest Rate Risk 
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a
financial instrument or cash-flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate
due to changes in market interest rates. Currently, the Entity’s interest rate
exposure arises mainly from the interest receipts on short-term investments
($4,385,700 as at December 31, 2016). 
Interest rate changes do not materially affect the Entity’s
financial assets and liabilities. 
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 
Estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are
based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The
determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgement based on various
assumptions and other factors such as historical experience and current and
expected economic conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Critical judgements in applying the Entity’s accounting
policies are detailed in the Combined Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition 
Revenue comprises gross proceeds from the sale of commodities
received pursuant to stream and offtake agreements and revenues earned directly
from royalty agreements. For royalty and offtake agreements, revenue recognition
occurs when the relevant commodity received from the operator is physically
delivered and sold by a Portfolio entity to its third party customers. Revenue
is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable when
management can reliably estimate the amount, pursuant to the terms of the
royalty. In some instances, a Portfolio entity will not have access to
sufficient information to make a reasonable estimate of revenue and,
accordingly, revenue recognition is deferred until management can make a
reasonable estimate. Differences between estimates and actual amounts are
adjusted and recorded in the period that the actual amounts are known. 
Gold and silver, including gold and silver received under
stream agreements, is sold primarily in the spot market. The sales price is
fixed at the delivery date based on the gold or silver spot prices. Generally, a
Portfolio entity records the sales at the time of physical delivery, which is
also the date that title to the gold or silver passes to the purchaser. 
For the year ended December 31, 2016, total revenue recognized
by the Portfolio comprised of actual amounts received on the Combined Statement
of Income and $nil receivables. 

6 
F-37

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 December 31,
 2016 
 
 
Asset Impairment 
Assessment of impairment of royalty and stream interests
 requires the use of judgments, assumptions and estimates when assessing whether
 there are any indicators that could give rise to the requirement to conduct a
 formal impairment test on the Entity’s royalty and stream interests. The
 assessment of fair value requires the use of estimates and assumptions for
 recoverable production, long-term commodity prices, discount rates,
 reserve/resource conversion, foreign exchange rates, future capital expansion
 plans and the associated production implications. Changes in any of the
 assumptions and estimates used in determining the fair value of the royalty and
 stream interests, investments measured at cost, could impact the impairment
 analysis. 
Financial Instruments 
All financial instruments are required to be measured at fair
value on initial recognition. The fair value is based on quoted market prices,
unless the financial instruments are not traded in an active market. In this
case, the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques like the
Black-Scholes option pricing model or other valuation techniques. Measurement in
subsequent periods depends on the classification of the financial instrument. A
description of financial instruments and their fair value is included in the
Combined Financial Statements. 
Subsequent Events to 2016 
None. 
7
F-38

Orion PortfolioUnaudited
Condensed Combined Interim Financial Statements for the
three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016

F-39

(This page is left intentionally blank)
F-40

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Combined Balance
 Sheets (unaudited) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 March 31, 
 
 
 December 31, 
 
 
 
 (in thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and
 cash equivalents 
 
 3 
 
 $
 11,649.6
 
 
 $
 6,114.9

 
 
 
 Accounts and other
 receivables 
 
 
 
 
 733.1 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Prepaid
 expenses and sundry deposits 
 
 
 
 
 1,243.4 
 
 
 104.4 
 
 
 
 Other assets 
 
 4 
 
 
 1,112.2 
 
 
 635.7 
 
 
 
 Due from affiliates 
 
 
 
 
 18.9 
 
 
 18.1 
 
 
 
 Total current assets 
 
 
 
 
 14,757.2 
 
 
 6,873.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalty
 and stream interests, net 
 
 5 
 
 
 457,200.9 
 
 
 462,252.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 457,200.9 
 
 
 462,252.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total assets 
 
 
 
 $
 471,958.1 
 
 $
 469,125.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accounts
 payable and accrued liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 1,491.4 
 
 
 596.6 
 
 
 
 Due to affiliates 
 
 
 
 
 171.5 
 
 
 181.8 
 
 
 
 Total current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 1,662.9 
 
 
 778.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net
 parent investment 
 
 
 
 
 453,269.6 
 
 
 451,659.0 
 
 
 
 Accumulated other
 comprehensive income 
 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 105.7 
 
 
 
 
 Non-controlling interest 
 
 11 
 
 
 17,025.6 
 
 
 16,582.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total equity 
 
 
 
 
 470,295.2 
 
 
 468,347.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total liabilities and equity 
 
 
 
 $
 471,958.1 
 
 $
 469,125.6 
 

 
 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these
 unaudited condensed interim combined financial statements 
 Page | 3 
F-41

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Combined
 Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income (unaudited)

 
 
 For the three months ended March 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (in thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 Revenue 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalty income 
 
 7 
 
 $
 1,587.7 
 
 $
 1,604.6 
 
 
 
 Gold,
 silver and diamond sales 
 
 7 
 
 
 20,906.5 
 
 
 3,988.5 
 
 
 
 Other income 
 
 
 
 
 21.2 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total revenue 
 
 
 
 
 22,515.4 
 
 
 5,593.1 
 
 
 
 Cost and expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchased cost of gold,
 silver and diamonds 
 
 8 
 
 
 16,779.5 
 
 
 3,807.8 
 
 
 
 Depletion
 of royalty and stream interests 
 
 
 
 
 5,686.8 
 
 
 943.9 
 
 
 
 Reversal of impairment of
 royalty and stream interests 
 
 5 
 
 
 (1,220.3
 ) 
 
 (4,538.6
 ) 
 
 
 General
 and administrative 
 
 
 
 
 1,484.7 
 
 
 1,677.4 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 (3.8
 ) 
 
 5.2 
 
 
 
 Other
 gains 
 
 10 
 
 
 (105.7
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total costs and expenses 
 
 
 
 
 22,621.2 
 
 
 1,895.7 
 
 
 
 Operating income/(loss)
 
 
 
 
 
 (105.8
 ) 
 
 3,697.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Finance items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Finance
 income 
 
 
 
 
 11.4 
 
 
 1.1 
 
 
 
 Finance expenses 
 
 11 
 
 
 (0.2
 ) 
 
 (306.7
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) before income taxes 
 
 
 
 
 (94.6
 ) 
 
 3,391.8 
 
 
 
 Income tax expense 
 
 9 
 
 
 95.8 
 
 
 98.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net income (loss) 
 
 
 
 $
 (190.4
 ) 
 $
 3,293.1 
 
 
 
 Attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Owners of
 the Parent 
 
 
 
 
 (193.5
 )

 
 3,255.5 
 
 
 
 Non-controlling interests 
 
 12 
 
 
 3.1 
 
 
 37.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (190.4
 ) 
 
 3,293.1 
 
 
 
 Other comprehensive income/(loss): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net
 change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 
 
 
 
 
 (105.7
 )

 
 128.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period 
 
 
 
 
 (105.7
 ) 
 
 128.0 
 
 
 
 Total comprehensive income/(loss) 
 
 
 
 $
 (296.1
 ) 
 $
 3,421.1 
 
 
 
 Attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Owners of the Parent 
 
 
 
 
 (299.2
 ) 
 
 3,383.5 
 
 
 
 Non-controlling interest 
 
 12 
 
 
 3.1 
 
 
 37.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 (296.1
 ) 
 $
 3,421.1 
 

 
 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these
 unaudited condensed interim combined financial statements 
 Page | 4 
F-42

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Combined
 Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited) 

 
 
 For the three months ended March
 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (in thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 Notes 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 Cash flows from operating
 activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net income (loss) for the period 
 
 
 
 $
 (190.4
 ) 
 $
 3,293.1 
 
 
 
 Adjustments for: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 
 
 5,686.8 
 
 
 943.9 
 
 
 
 Reversal
 of impairments 
 
 
 
 
 (1,220.3
 )

 
 (4,538.6
 )
 
 
 
 Gain on sale of
 available-for-sale asset 
 
 
 
 
 (105.7
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Finance
 expenses 
 
 9 
 
 
 0.2 
 
 
 306.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Changes in other assets
 and liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Prepaid expenses and
 sundry deposits 
 
 
 
 
 (1,139.0
 ) 
 
 (24.9
 ) 
 
 
 
 Receivable from/payable to affiliates 
 
 
 
 
 (11.1
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 
 Accounts receivable 
 
 
 
 
 (733.1
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Accounts
 payable 
 
 
 
 
 501.2 
 
 
 98.1 
 
 
 
 Interest paid 
 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 (531.2
 ) 
 
 
 Cash (used in) provided by operating activities 
 
 
 
 $
 2,788.6 
 
 $
 (452.9
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash flow from investing
 activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Proceeds from sale of
 investments 
 
 
 
 
 502.0 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition of royalty and stream interest 
 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 (35,380.0
 )
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash (used in) provided by investing activities 
 
 
 
 
 502.0 
 
 
 (35,380.0
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash flow from financing
 activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Funds provided by
 non-controlling interests 
 
 
 
 
 440.0 
 
 
 3,040.6 
 
 
 
 Net
 parent investment 
 
 
 
 
 1,804.1 
 
 
 44,554.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net cash provided by financing activities 
 
 
 
 
 2,244.1 
 
 
 47,595.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net change in cash and
 cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 
 5,534.7 
 
 
 11,762.4 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 
 
 
 
 
 6,114.9 
 
 
 1,951.4 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 
 
 
 
 $
 11,649.6 
 
 $
 13,713.8 
 

 
 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these
 unaudited condensed interim combined financial statements 
 Page | 5 
F-43

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Combined Statement
 of Changes in Net Parent Investment (unaudited) 

 
 
 
 
 Net Parent 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investment 
 
 
 
 Balance as of January 1,
 2017 
 $
 451,659.0 
 
 
 
 Net
 loss 
 
 (193.5
 ) 
 
 
 Net parent
 investment 
 
 1,804.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance as of March 31, 2017 
 $
 453,269.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance as of January 1,
 2016 
 $
 376,936.5 
 
 
 
 Net
 income 
 
 3,255.5 
 
 
 
 
 Net parent investment 
 
 44,554.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance as of March 31, 2016 
 $
 424,746.7 
 

 
 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these
 unaudited condensed interim combined financial statements 
 Page | 6 
F-44

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the three
 months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 1 – The Orion Portfolio 
The Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP (“Fund I”) is an
investment limited partnership formed on April 18, 2011 pursuant to the Limited
Partnership Act, 1883 and Exempted Partnerships Act, 1992 of Bermuda. Fund I
commenced operations on March 30, 2012. Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP
(“Fund I-A”) is an investment limited partnership formed on March 11, 2014
pursuant to the Limited Partnership Act, 1883 and Exempted Partnerships Act,
1992 of Bermuda. Fund I-A commenced operations on March 31, 2014. Fund I invests
in a number of royalties and streams and other interests in the mining sector,
and since March 31, 2014 has co-invested with Fund I-A on all new investments.

On June 4, 2017, pursuant to an Acquisition Agreement between
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. (“Osisko”) and Fund I, Fund I-A and various
controlled entities of the Funds (the “Funds”), Osisko agreed to purchase a
portfolio of investments (the “Orion Portfolio” or the “Portfolio”) comprising
61 royalties, 7 precious metal offtakes and 6 streams owned by the Funds (“the
Entity”). 
These unaudited combined financial statements were approved for
issuance by the Board of Directors on June 27, 2017.
The unaudited combined financial statements are presented in
United States dollars with all tabular amounts rounded to the nearest thousand
unless otherwise indicated. 
Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies 
(a) Basis of presentation 
These unaudited combined financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRS”) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”),
applicable to preparation of interim financial statements, including IAS 34
Interim Financial Reporting). Accordingly, certain disclosures included
in the annual financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by
the IASB have been condensed or omitted. These unaudited condensed combined
interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Entity’s
audited combined financial statements as at and for the year ended December 31,
2016. 
The accounting policies applied in the presentation of these
unaudited condensed combined interim financial statements are consistent with
those applied and disclosed in the Entity’s audited combined financial
statements as at and for the year ended December 31, 2016. The Entity’s interim
results are not necessarily indicative of its results for a full year, and the
combined financial statements may not be indicative of the Entity’s future
performance and they do not necessarily reflect what its combined results of
operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had the Entity
operated as an independent entity and had it presented stand-alone financial
statements during the periods presented. 
Page | 7 
F-45

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the three
 months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

These unaudited combined financial statements of the Entity
represent the activities, assets and liabilities of the Orion Portfolio on a
“carve-out” basis, rather than the representing the legal structure. For all
periods presented in these unaudited combined financial statements, the economic
activities related to the Orion Portfolio are combined as if they were under
common control, regardless of legal structure. The unaudited combined financial
statements of the Entity have been prepared for the purpose of presenting the
financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Orion Portfolio
on a stand-alone basis.
(b) New Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet
Effective
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
On July 24, 2014, the IASB published the final version IFRS 9
Financial Instruments” (“IFRS 9”) which brings together the
classification, measurement, impairment and hedge accounting phases of the
IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement. IFRS 9 includes a loss impairment model, amends the
classification and measurement model for financial assets by adding a new fair
value through comprehensive income category for certain debt instruments and
provides additional guidance on how to apply the business model and contractual
cash flow characteristics test. This final version of IFRS 9 supersedes all
previous versions of IFRS 9 and is effective for periods beginning on or after
January 1, 2018. 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts
with Customers (“IFRS 15”). The new standard provides a comprehensive
framework for recognition, measurement and disclosure of revenue from contracts
with customers, excluding contracts within the scope of the standards on leases,
insurance contracts and financial instruments. IFRS 15 becomes effective for
annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and is to be applied
retrospectively with early adoption permitted. 
IFRS 16 Leases 
In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases (“IFRS
16”), which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities for most
leases. IFRS 16 becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after
January 1, 2019 and is to be applied retrospectively with early adoption
permitted, provided IFRS 15 has been applied or is applied at the same date as
IFRS 16. 
Page | 8 
F-46

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the three
 months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance
Consideration 
In December 2016, the IASB issued IFRIC Interpretation 22
Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration which clarifies
that the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange
rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or
part of it) is the date on which an entity initially recognizes the non-monetary
asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance
consideration. The Interpretation is applicable for annual periods beginning on
or after January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted. 
Note 3 - Cash and Cash Equivalents 
As at March 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents include
short-term deposits, treasury bills, commercial paper, bankers’ depository notes
and bankers’ acceptances with terms to maturity of less than three months. 

 
 
 
 
 March 31, 
 
 
 December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 Cash 
 $
 6,408.5

 
 $
 1,729.2

 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 
 5,241.1 
 
 
 4,385.7 
 
 
 
 
 $
 11,649.6 
 
 $
 6,114.9 
 
Note 4 – Other Assets and Investments 
Other assets include equity interests in public entities which
the Entity acquired through the open market or through other transactions.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, all of the equity
investments were disposed of at a gain of $105,700 and as a result, $105,700 was
transferred from other comprehensive income to profit or loss (see Note 10).

In October 2015, the Entity issued a $25,000,000 loan to Rudnik
SASA, the operating company for the Sasa lead, zinc and silver mine. The loan
had a term of 2 ½ years with an interest rate of 3 month Libor + 1%. In
September 2016, Lynx Europe, the parent company of Rudnik SASA, made of payment
to the Entity of $3,145,900; $2,935,700 of which was applied to the $25,000,000
of principal and the remaining $210,000 was a payment of accrued interest.
Immediately thereafter, the Entity converted the then outstanding principal of
$22,064,000 into a silver stream. 
Page | 9 
F-47

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the three
 months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 5 – Royalty and Stream Interests, Net 
The following tables summarize the Entity’s royalty, stream and
offtake interests carrying values as March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016
respectively: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at March 31, 2017 
 
 Cost 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 Impairment 
 
 
 Carrying Value 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 185,915.0
 
 
 $
 (7,763.1
 ) 
 $
 (32,389.4
 ) 
 $
 145,762.5
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 318,175.2 
 
 
 (10,874.1
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 307,301.1 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 508,227.5 
 
 $
 (18,637.2
 ) 
 $
 (32,389.4
 ) 
 $
 457,200.9 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2016 
 
 Cost 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 Impairment 
 
 
 Carrying Value 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 185,915.0
 
 
 $
 (6,945.8
 ) 
 $
 (33,609.7
 ) 
 $
 145,359.5
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 318,175.2 
 
 
 (5,419.5
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 312,755.7 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 508,227.5 
 
 $
 (12,365.3
 ) 
 $
 (33,609.7
 ) 
 $
 462,252.5 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2016 
 $
 153,738.1
 
 
 $
 216,891.5
 
 
 $
 4,137.3

 
 $
 374,766.9
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 4,600.0 
 
 
 77,980.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 82,580.4 
 
 
 
 
 Disposals 
 
 (2,994.3
 )

 
 (0.2
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 (2,994.5
 ) 
 
 
 
 Depletions 
 
 (2,838.4
 ) 
 
 (4,263.9
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (7,102.3
 ) 
 
 
 
 Impairments 
 
 (7,145.9
 ) 
 
 22,147.9 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 15,002.0 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2016 
 $
 145,359.5 
 
 $
 312,755.7 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 462,252.5 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Disposals 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 (817.3
 )

 
 (5,454.6
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 (6,271.9
 ) 
 
 
 
 Impairments 
 
 1,220.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 1,220.3 
 
 
 
 
 March 31, 2017 
 $
 145,762.5 
 
 $
 307,301.1 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 457,200.9 
 
There have been no acquisitions or disposals in the three
months ended March 31, 2017 that affected the Entity’s interests in these
assets. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Entity funded $30.78
million of the Renard stream. 
Page | 10 
F-48

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the three
 months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements 
The objective of a fair value measurement is to estimate the
price at which an orderly transaction to sell an asset or to transfer a
liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date
under current market conditions. For some assets and liabilities, observable
market transactions or market information might be available.
For other assets and liabilities, observable market
transactions and market information might not be available. The fair value
hierarchy establishes three levels to classify the inputs to valuation
techniques used to measure fair value. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices
(unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2
inputs are quoted prices in markets that are not active, quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities in active markets, inputs other than quoted prices
observable for the asset or liability (for example, interest rate and yield
curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, forward pricing curves used to
value currency and commodity contracts and volatility measurements used to value
option contracts), or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated
by observable market data or other means. Level 3 inputs are unobservable
(supported by little or no market activity). The fair value hierarchy gives the
highest priority to Level 1 inputs and the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs.

The following table presents the Entity’s fair value hierarchy
for those investments carried at fair value as at March 31, 2017 and December
31, 2016. 

 
 
 As at March 31, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 significant 
 
 
 unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quoted prices 
 
 
 observable 
 
 
 inputs 
 
 
 Aggregate 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Level 1) 
 
 
 inputs (Level 2) 
 
 
 (Level 3) 
 
 
 Fair Value 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 $
 5,241.1 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 5,241.1 
 
 
 
 
 $
 5,241.1 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 5,241.1 
 

 
 
 As at December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 Significant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 significant 
 
 
 unobservable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quoted prices 
 
 
 observable 
 
 
 inputs 
 
 
 Aggregate Fair 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Level 1) 
 
 
 inputs (Level 2) 
 
 
 (Level 3) 
 
 
 Value 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 $
 4,385.7

 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 4,385.7

 
 
 
 Available-for-sale equity investments 
 
 502.2 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 502.2 
 
 
 
 
 $
 4,887.9 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 - 
 
 $
 4,887.9 
 
Page | 11 
F-49

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the three
 months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 7 - Revenue 
Revenue is comprised of the following: 

 
 
 
 
 For the Three Months ended March 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 1,587.7

 
 $
 1,604.6

 
 
 
 Gold sales 
 
 12,526.0 
 
 
 1,137.8 
 
 
 
 Silver sales 
 
 6,149.1 
 
 
 2,850.7 
 
 
 
 Diamond sales 
 
 2,231.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Total 
 $
 22,494.2 
 
 $
 5,593.1 
 
Note 8 - Costs of Sales 
Cost of sales is comprised of the following: 

 
 
 
 
 For the Three Months ended March 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 Cost of gold sales 
 $
 12,389.8
 
 
 $
 1,102.5

 
 
 
 Cost of silver sales 
 
 2,819.5 
 
 
 2,705.3 
 
 
 
 Cost of diamond sales 
 
 1,570.1 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Total 
 $
 16,779.5 
 
 $
 3,807.8 
 
Note 9 - Income Taxes 
Current income tax represents the withholding taxes paid in
respect of the Entity. 
No deferred tax liabilities have been recorded in the financial
statements principally as a result of the application of the Initial Recognition
Exemption and the offsetting of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
levied by the same taxation authority where the Entity has the legal right and
intent to offset. 
Page | 12 
F-50

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the three
 months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 10 – Other Gains and Losses 
Other gains and losses include: 

 
 
 
 
 For the Three Months ended March 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 Gain on disposal of available
 for 
 
 105.7 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 sale
 asset 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 $
 105.7 
 
 $ 
 - 
 
Note 11 - Related Party Disclosures 
The Entity has amounts due to/from related parties in the
normal course of business. At March 31, 2017, $171,500 ($181,800 as at December
31, 2016) was due to related parties, while $18,900 ($18,100 as at December 31,
2016) was due from related parties. Amounts are non-interest bearing and are
payable on demand. 
On November 25, 2013, Orion Royalty Company, LLC (“ORC”), a
controlled entity of Fund I, issued a promissory note of US$5,600,000 to RK Mine
Finance Trust, a third party. The note bears interest at 3-month US$ LIBOR
(Reuters) subject to a 2% minimum, plus 8% and matures on or before December 31,
2016. An identical promissory note was issued to Orion MF Investment Holding
Company 1 (Cayman) Limited, another controlled entity of Fund I. Both notes were
redeemed by ORC on December 16, 2016. 
Page | 13 
F-51

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 
 Notes to Combined Financial Statements 
 
 For the three
 months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts in thousands of US dollars)

Note 12 – Interests of Non-Controlling Interests 
In 2015, the Entity and other co-investors set up the following
entities which provided funds to acquire interests in certain streams and
offtakes. The following table shows the share of the non-controlling interests
in the investments, as well as their share of the revenue and costs directly
related to the investments. 

 
 
 As at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 
 

 Non-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 controlling 
 
 
 Subsidiary 
 Jurisdiction 
 interest 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited

 Bermuda 
 21.7% 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments III LP 
 Bermuda 
 12.2% 
 
 
 Orion Co IV (SO) Limited 
 Bermuda 
 2.1% 
Material amounts directly attributable to the investments for
the three months ended March 31, 2017 and assets as at March 31, 2017: 

 
 
 Subsidiary 
 Assets 
 Revenue 
 Cost 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited

 16,250.0 
 - 
 - 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments III LP 
 2,555.6 
 207.8 
 131.9 
 
 
 Orion Co IV (SO) Limited 
 787.5 
 - 
 - 
Material amounts directly attributable to the investments for
the three months ended March 31, 2016 and assets as at March 31, 2016: 

 
 
 Subsidiary 
 Assets 
 Revenue 
 Cost 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments II (Stream) Limited

 16,250.0 
 - 
 - 
 
 
 Orion Co-Investments III (Stream) Limited 
 2,682.9 
 - 
 42.6 
 
 
 Orion Co IV (SO) Limited 
 296.2 
 - 
 - 
Page | 14 
F-52

Management's Discussion and Analysis For the three
month period ended March 31, 2017

 
 The following management discussion and analysis
 (“MD&A”) relates to the unaudited combined
 financial statements and related notes as at and for the three
 month period ended March 31, 2017 (the “Combined Financial
 Statements”) of a portfolio of royalty, stream and
 offtake investments (the “Entity”) owned and/or
 controlled by Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP (“Fund
 I”) and Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP
 (“Fund I-A”) (collectively, the
 “Funds”), and should be read with the Combined
 Financial Statements. The information included in this MD&A is
 as of June 27, 2017, the date of the Combined Financial Statements. All
 monetary amounts included in this MD&A are expressed in U.S.
 dollars, the Entity’s reporting currency, unless otherwise noted.
 
Description of the Business 
Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I LP (“Fund I”) is an
exempted partnership and a limited partnership formed on April 18, 2011 pursuant
to the laws of Bermuda. Fund I commenced operations on March 30, 2012. Orion
Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP (“Fund I-A”) is an exempted partnership
and a limited partnership formed on March 11, 2014 pursuant to the laws of
Bermuda. Fund I-A commenced operations on March 31, 2014. Fund I invests in a
number of royalties and streams and other interests in the mining sector, and
since March 31, 2014 has co-invested with Fund I-A on all new investments. The
Entity constitutes a portfolio of royalties, streams and offtakes owned and/or
controlled by the Funds. 
On June 4, 2017, pursuant to an Acquisition Agreement among
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. (“Osisko”), Fund I, Fund I-A, Orion
Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC, Orion Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments
IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited and Lynx Metals Limited, Osisko agreed to purchase
a portfolio of investments comprising 61 royalties, 7 precious metal offtakes
and 6 streams owned, directly or indirectly, or controlled by Fund I and Fund
I-A (the “Portfolio”). 
The Entity’s unaudited combined financial statements and
related notes for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 (the
“Combined Financial Statements”) represent the activities, assets
and liabilities of the Portfolio on a “carve-out” basis, rather than the
representing the legal structure. For the period presented in the Combined
Financial Statements, the economic activities related to the Portfolio are
combined as they were under common control. The Combined Financial Statements of
the Entity have been prepared for the purpose of presenting the financial
position, results of operations and cash flows of the Portfolio on a stand-alone
basis. 
Basis of Presentation of Combined Financial Statements

The Combined Financial Statements have been prepared in
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, International
Accounting Standards and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations
Committee and the former Standing Interpretations Committee. IFRS does not
provide guidance for the preparation of carve-out financial statements, and
accordingly in preparing the carve-out combined financial statements, certain
accounting conventions commonly used for the preparation of historical financial
statements have been applied. The Combined Financial Statements represent the
activities, assets and liabilities of the Portfolio on a “carve-out” basis,
rather than the representing the legal structure.
Portfolio of Royalty and Stream Interests, Net
The following tables summarize the Entity’s royalty, stream and
offtake interests’ carrying values as at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at March 31, 2017 
 
 Cost 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 Impairment 
 
 
 Carrying Value 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 185,915.0
 
 
 $
 (7,763.1
 ) 
 $
 (32,389.4
 ) 
 $
 145,762.5
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 318,175.2 
 
 
 (10,874.1
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 307,301.1 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 508,227.5 
 
 $
 (18,637.2
 ) 
 $
 (32,389.4
 ) 
 $
 457,200.9 
 
F-53

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 March 31,
 2017 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As at December 31, 2016 
 
 Cost 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 
 Impairment 
 
 
 Carrying Value 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 $
 185,915.0
 
 
 $
 (6,945.8
 ) 
 $
 (33,609.7
 ) 
 $
 145,359.5
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 318,175.2 
 
 
 (5,419.5
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 312,755.7 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 4,137.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 508,227.5 
 
 $
 (12,365.3
 ) 
 $
 (33,609.7
 ) 
 $
 462,252.5 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2016 
 $
 153,738.1 
 
 $
 216,891.5 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 374,766. 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 4,600.0 
 
 
 77,980.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 82,580. 
 
 
 
 
 Disposals 
 
 (2,994.3
 )

 
 (0.2
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 (2,994. 
 
 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 (2,838.4
 ) 
 
 (4,263.9
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (7,102. 
 
 
 
 
 Impairments 
 
 (7,145.9
 ) 
 
 22,147.9 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 15,002. 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2016 
 $
 145,359.5 
 
 $
 312,755.7 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 462,252. 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Disposals 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Depletion 
 
 (817.3
 )

 
 (5,454.6
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 (6,271. 
 
 
 
 
 Impairments 
 
 1,220.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 1,220. 
 
 
 
 
 March 31, 2017 
 $
 145,762.5 
 
 $
 307,301.1 
 
 $
 4,137.3 
 
 $
 457,200. 
 
Summary of Significant Royalty and Stream Interests 

 
 Asset 
 Operator 
 Country 
 Commodity 
 Investment Type 
 Stage 
 
 Ambler 
 Trilogy 
 USA 
 Cu, Pb, Zn 
 1% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Amulsar 
 Lydian International 
 Armenia 
 Au 
 Stream & Offtake 
 Construction 
 
 Back Forty 
 Aquila Resources 
 USA 
 Ag 
 Stream 
 Pre-feasibility 
 
 Bald Mtn. Alligator Ridge 
 Kinross 
 USA 
 Au 
 1% NSR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Bald Mtn. Duke/ Trapper 
 Kinross 
 USA 
 Au 
 4% NSR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Brauna 
 Lipari 
 Brazil 
 Dia 
 1% GRR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Brucejack 
 Pretium Resources 
 Canada 
 Au 
 Stream & Offtake 
 Construction 
 
 Cameron Lake 
 First Mining 
 Canada 
 Au 
 1% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Casino 
 Western Copper & Gold 
 Canada 
 Au, Ag, Cu 
 1.25% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Cerro Del Gallo 
 Primero Mining 
 Mexico 
 Au, Ag 
 3% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Dolphin (King Island) 
 King Island Scheelite 
 Australia 
 Tu 
 1.5% GRR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Gold Rock 
 GRP Minerals 
 USA 
 Au 
 4% NSR Royalty 
 
 Exploration 
 
 Gurupi 
 Avanco 
 Brazil 
 Au 
 0.75% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Kwale 
 Base Resources 
 Kenya 
 Il, Ru, Zi 
 1.5% GRR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Mantos Blancos & Mantoverde 
 Mantos Copper Holdings 
 Chile 
 Ag 
 Stream 
 Production 
 
 Matilda 
 Blackham Resources 
 Australia 
 Au 
 Offtake 
 Production 
 
 Nimbus 
 MacPhersons Resources 
 Australia 
 Au, Ag 
 Offtake 
 Exploration 
 
 Northern Dancer 
 Largo 
 Canada 
 Au, Ag, Cu 
 1% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Pan 
 GRP Minerals 
 USA 
 Au 
 4% NSR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Parral 
 GoGold Resources 
 Mexico 
 Au 
 Offtake 
 Production 
 
 Renard 
 Stornoway Diamonds 
 Canada 
 Dia 
 Stream 
 Production 
 
 San Ramon 
 Red Eagle Mining Corp. 
 Colombia 
 Au 
 Offtake 
 Production 

 
 Sao Jorge 
 GoldMining 
 Brazil 
 Au 
 1.25% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Sasa 
 Lynx mining 
 Macedonia 
 Ag 
 Stream 
 Production 
 
 Seabee 
 Silver Standard 
 Canada 
 Au 
 3% NSR Royalty 
 Production 
 
 Spring Valley 
 Waterton 
 USA 
 Au 
 0.5% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Unicorn 
 DART Mining 
 Australia 
 Mo, Cu, Ag 
 2% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Whistler 
 GoldMining 
 USA 
 Au, Ag 
 2.75% NSR Royalty 
 Exploration 
 
 Yenipazar 
 Aldridge Minerals Inc. 
 Turkey 
 Au 
 Offtake 
 Exploration 
2 
F-54

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 March 31,
 2017 
 
 

Selected Financial Information(1)

(in thousands of US dollars) 

 
 
 
 
 For the Three Months Ended March 31, 
 
 
 December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 22,515.4 
 
 
 5,593.1 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Operating income (loss) 
 
 (105.8
 ) 
 
 3,697.4 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 Net income (loss) 
 
 (190.4
 ) 
 
 3,293.1 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total assets 
 
 471,958.1 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 469,125.6 
 
 
 
 Operating cash flows 
 
 2,788.4 
 
 
 (452.9
 ) 
 
 - 
 
(1) Unless otherwise noted, financial
information is in U.S. dollars and prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
Overview of Financial Results 
Financial Summary – three months ended March 31, 2017
compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 

 
 
 • 
 
 Revenues of $22.5 million compared to $5.6 million for
 the three months ended March 31, 2016; 
 
 
 • 
 
 Operating loss of $0.1 million compared to operating
 income of $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016;
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Net loss of $0.2 million compared to net income of $3.3
 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016; and 
 
 
 • 
 
 Net cash flows provided by operating activities of $2.8
 million compared to net cash used in operating activities of $0.5 million
 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. 
Revenues increased by $16.9 million for the three months ended
March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily due
to the commencement of deliveries under the Matilda offtake ($10.7 million) and
the commencement of the Renard stream ($3.5 million). Revenues from the ongoing
Sasa stream, the Mantos stream and the Parral offtake contributed an increase of
$2.6 million. Royalty income was relatively flat. 
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Entity recorded
an operating loss of $0.1 million compared to an operating gain of $3.7 million
for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The $3.8 million decrease in net
operating income was mainly attributable to a $13.0 million increase in the cost
of goods sold for gold, silver and diamonds pursuant to stream and offtake
agreements, and a $4.7 million increase in recognized depletion expenses, offset
somewhat by an increase in gross gold, silver and diamond sales. 
Net income reduced from a gain of $3.3 million to a loss of
$0.1 million, mainly as a result of a $13.0 million increase in the cost of
goods sold for gold, silver and diamonds pursuant to stream and offtake
agreements and an increase in recognized depletion expenses of $4.7 million.
This was offset somewhat by the increase in gross revenues of $16.9 million and
a $3.3 million decrease in the reversal of royalty and stream impairments. 
3 
F-55

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 March 31,
 2017 
 
 
Combined Statements of Income 
The following table presents summarized unaudited combined
statements of income for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 and 2016
(in thousands of dollars): 

 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 22,515.4
 
 
 
 5,593.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchased cost of gold, silver & diamonds
 
 
 16,779.5 
 
 
 3,807.8 
 
 
 
 Depletion of royalty and stream interests 
 
 5,686.8 
 
 
 943.9 
 
 
 
 Impairment/(reversal) of royalty and stream
 interests 
 
 (1,220.3
 ) 
 
 (4,538.6
 ) 
 
 
 General and administrative 
 
 1,484.7 
 
 
 1,677.4 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/expenses 
 
 (3.8
 ) 
 
 5.2 
 
 
 
 Other (gains) / losses 
 
 (105.7
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating income/(loss) 
 
 (105.8
 ) 
 
 3,697.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other income/(expense), net 
 
 11.2 
 
 
 (305.6
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) before income taxes 
 
 (94.6
 ) 
 
 3,391.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income tax expense 
 
 95.8 
 
 
 98.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net income/(loss) 
 
 (190.4
 ) 
 
 3,293.1 
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
As at March 31, 2017, the Entity’s cash and cash equivalents
amounted to $11.6 million compared to $6.1 million as at December 31, 2016. 
The Entity’s near-term cash requirements are limited to (i)
general and administrative expenses, and (ii) the costs associated with the sale
of assets to Osisko, including outside legal, audit, banking and other
professional fees. 
Cash Flows 
Operating Activities 
Cash flows provided by operating activities for the three
months ended March 31, 2017 amounted to $2.8 million, compared to cash used in
operating activities of $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31,
2016.
The increase of $3.3 million for the three months ended March
31, 2017 compared to the same three month period in 2016 is primarily due to the
increase in revenues ($16.9 million), an adjustment for the recognition of
depletion ($4.7 million) and a reduction in interest expense ($0.3 million),
offset by an increase in the cost of goods sold for gold, silver and diamonds
pursuant to stream and offtake agreements ($13.0 million). 
Investing Activities 
Cash flows provided by investing activities were $0.5 million
for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to cash used for investing
activities the same three month period in 2016 of $35.4 million. The increase of
$35.9 million was mainly attributable to the reduced acquisition of assets
($35.4 million), as Fund I and Fund I-A reached the end of their investing
period, which ended on December 13, 2016. 
4 
F-56

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 March 31,
 2017 
 
 
Financing Activities 
The cash inflows provided by financing activities for the three
months ended March 31, 2017 was $2.2 million, as compared to $47.6 million for
the same three month period in 2016. The $45.4 million decrease was mainly
attributable to a decrease in funding provided by Fund I and Fund I-A as the
investment period ended for the Funds in 2016. 
Related Party Transactions 
The Portfolio has amounts due to/from related parties in the
normal course of business. At March 31, 2017, $171,500 ($181,800 as at December
31, 2016) was due to related parties, while $18,900 ($18,100 as at December 31,
2016) was due from related parties. Amounts are non-interest bearing and are
payable on demand. 
On November 25, 2013, Orion Royalty Company, LLC (“ORC”), a
controlled entity of Fund I, issued a promissory note of US$5,600,000 to RK Mine
Finance Trust, a third party. The note bears interest at 3-month US$ LIBOR
(Reuters) subject to a 2% minimum, plus 8% and matures on or before December 31,
2016. An identical promissory note was issued to Orion MF Investment Holding
Company 1 (Cayman) Limited, another controlled entity of Fund I. Both notes were
redeemed by ORC on December 16, 2016 
Contractual Obligations and Commitments 
The following table summarizes commitments to pay for gold,
silver and diamonds to which Portfolio entities have the contractual right
pursuant to the associated precious metals and diamond purchase agreements: 

 
 
 
 
 Attributable Payable Production
 to 
 
 
 Per Ounce/Carat Cash Payment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 be Purchased 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Term of 
 
 
 Date of 
 
 
 
 Interest

 
 Gold 
 
 
 Silver 
 
 
 Diamond 
 
 
 Gold 
 
 
 Silver 
 
 
 Diamond 
 
 
 Agreement 
 
 
 Contract 
 
 
 
 Amulsar1 
 
 142,454 
 
 
 694,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 $400 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 years 
 
 
 Nov 25, 2015 
 
 
 
 Back Forty 
 
 
 
 
 75% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 LOM 
 
 
 Mar 31, 2015 
 
 
 
 Brucejack2 
 
 100% 
 
 
 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 $400 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dec 31, 2019 
 
 
 Sept 21, 2015 
 
 
 
 Mantos3 
 
 
 
 
 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 25% spot 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dec 31, 2029 
 
 
 Sept 11, 2015 
 
 
 
 Renard4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6.84% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $50 
 
 
 40 years 
 
 
 Jul 8, 2014 
 
 
 
 SASA5
 
 
 
 
 
 100%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $5 
 
 
 
 
 
 40
 years 
 
 
 Nov
 3, 2015 
 

 
 1. 
 
 6.75% of gold and 100% of silver production up to the
 production maximum. Also subject to multiple buyback options: 50% for $50
 million and $55 million on 2nd and 3rd anniversary
 of production start date, respectively, which is currently expected to be
 July 1, 2018. 1% inflation price escalation after 2nd
 anniversary.
 
 2. 
 
 Subject to multiple buyback options: 12/31/2018 pursuant
 to a 15% internal rate of return to the Portfolio or 12/31/2019 for $75
 million + 3% ongoing stream. If buyback not exercised by 12/31/2019, $20
 million make-whole payment + 8% ongoing stream.
 
 3. 
 
 As a condition to closing the transaction with Osisko,
 the Mantos silver stream agreement is expected to be amended to extend the
 stream for the life of mine and the stream percentage shall be payable on
 100% of silver until 19,300,000 ounces have been delivered, after which
 the stream percentage will be 30%.
 
 4. 
 
 The Entity holds a Stream agreement, which gives it the
 right to 6.84% (9.6% including co investors) of diamond production. The
 term shall be automatically extended beyond the initial term for
 successive 10-year periods.
 
 5. 
 
 Term shall be automatically extended beyond initial term
 for successive 10-year periods. 3% or CPI per ounce price escalation after
 2016.
Off-balance Sheet Items 
There are no off-balance sheet arrangements. 
5 
F-57

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 March 31,
 2017 
 
 
Risks and Uncertainties 
Portfolio entities hold royalty, stream and offtake investments
and operate in an industry that is dependent on a number of factors that include
environmental, legal operational/execution, financing and political risks, the
discovery of economically recoverable reserves and the ability of third-parties
to develop, construct and operate assets and to maintain production in an
economically feasible production. If any of these risks occur, or if others
occur, the Entity’s operating results and financial condition could be seriously
harmed and investors may lose a significant proportion of their investment. In
addition, the Entity is exposed to the following financial risks: 
Commodity Price Risk 
The Entity’s royalties and streams are subject to fluctuations
from changes in market prices of the underlying commodities. The market prices
of gold, silver and other metals or diamonds are the primary drivers of the
Entity’s profitability and ability to generate free cash flow. Substantially all
of the Entity’s future revenue is unhedged in order to provide stakeholders with
maximum exposure to changes in the market prices of these commodities. 
Foreign Exchange Risk 
The functional currency of the Portfolio is the U.S. dollar. As
most of the Portfolio assets and liabilities are in the U.S. dollars, the risk
of which the Portfolio is exposed to currency fluctuations relative to the U.S.
dollar on balances and transactions that are denominated and settled in other
currencies are immaterial. 
Interest Rate Risk 
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a
financial instrument or cash-flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate
due to changes in market interest rates. Currently, the Entity’s interest rate
exposure arises mainly from the interest receipts on short-term investments,
which was $5,241,100 as at March 31, 2017 ($4,385,700 as at December 31, 2016).

Interest rate changes do not materially affect the Entity’s
financial assets and liabilities. 
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 
Estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are
based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The
determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgement based on various
assumptions and other factors such as historical experience and current and
expected economic conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Critical judgements in applying the Entity’s accounting
policies are detailed in the Combined Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition 
Revenue comprises gross proceeds from the sale of commodities
received pursuant to stream and offtake agreements and revenues earned directly
from royalty agreements. For royalty and offtake agreements, revenue recognition
occurs when the relevant commodity received from the operator is physically
delivered and sold by a Portfolio entity to its third party customers. Revenue
is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable when
management can reliably estimate the amount, pursuant to the terms of the
royalty. In some instances, a Portfolio entity will not have access to
sufficient information to make a reasonable estimate of revenue and,
accordingly, revenue recognition is deferred until management can make a
reasonable estimate. Differences between estimates and actual amounts are
adjusted and recorded in the period that the actual amounts are known. 
Gold and silver, including gold and silver received under
stream agreements, is sold primarily in the spot market. The sales price is
fixed at the delivery date based on the gold or silver spot prices. Generally,
Portfolio entities record the sales at the time of physical delivery, which is
also the date that title to the gold or silver passes to the purchaser. 
6 
F-58

 
 Orion Portfolio 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
 
 
 March 31,
 2017 
 
 
For the three month period ended March 31, 2107, total revenue
recognized by the Portfolio comprised of actual amounts received on the Combined
Statement of Income and $nil receivables. 
Asset Impairment 
Assessment of impairment of royalty and stream interests
requires the use of judgments, assumptions and estimates when assessing whether
there are any indicators that could give rise to the requirement to conduct a
formal impairment test on the Entity’s royalty and stream interests. The
assessment of fair value requires the use of estimates and assumptions for
recoverable production, long-term commodity prices, discount rates,
reserve/resource conversion, foreign exchange rates, future capital expansion
plans and the associated production implications. Changes in any of the
assumptions and estimates used in determining the fair value of the royalty and
stream interests, investments measured at cost, could impact the impairment
analysis. 
Financial Instruments 
All financial instruments are required to be measured at fair
value on initial recognition. The fair value is based on quoted market prices,
unless the financial instruments are not traded in an active market. In this
case, the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques like the
Black-Scholes option pricing model or other valuation techniques. Measurement in
subsequent periods depends on the classification of the financial instrument. A
description of financial instruments and their fair value is included in the
Combined Financial Statements as at December 31, 2016. 
7
F-59

SCHEDULE "G" 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF OSISKO

 
 
 Page 
 
 Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed
 Consolidated Financial Statements of Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. 
 G-2 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2017
 
 G-4 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income
 (Loss) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 
 G-6 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income for the year
 ended December 31, 2016 
 G-7 
 
 Notes to the Pro Forma Condensed
 Consolidated Financial Statements 
 G-8
 
G-1 

 
OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed

Consolidated Financial Statements

March 31, 2017 
G-2

UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS OF OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD 
Table of Content 

 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet as at
 March 31, 2017 
 3 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income
 (Loss) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 
 5 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income for
 the year ended December 31, 2016 
 6 
 
 Notes to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated
 Financial Statements 
 7 
 
 1. 
 Basis of Presentation 
 7 
 
 2. 
 Significant Accounting Policies 
 7 
 
 3. 
 Agreement and Related Transactions 
 8 
 
 4. 
 Pro Forma Adjustments 
 9 
 
 5. 
 Earnings (Loss) per Share 
 10 
2 
G-3

 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet 
 
 As at March 31, 2017 
 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 (Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Ltd 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro Forma 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro Forma 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Ltd 
 
 
 Orion 
 
 
 Adjustments 
 
 
 Note 4 
 
 
 Consolidated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Note 1
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
 423,567 
 
 
 15,520 
 
 
 261,178 
 
 
 a) 
 
 
 149,702 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 150,000 
 
 
 b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (692,445
 ) 
 
 c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (118
 ) 
 
 c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,000
 ) 
 
 d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term
 investments 
 
 2,547 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,547 
 
 
 
 Accounts receivable 
 
 6,223 
 
 
 977 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,200 
 
 
 
 Other assets 
 
 807 
 
 
 3,164 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,971 
 
 
 
 
 
 433,144 
 
 
 19,661 
 
 
 (289,385
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 163,420 
 
 
 
 Non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investments in associates 
 
 111,223 
 
 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 111,223 
 
 
 
 Other
 investments 
 
 121,336 
 
 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 121,336 
 
 
 
 Royalty, stream and similar
 interests 
 
 534,377 
 
 
 609,083 
 
 
 322,383 
 
 
 e) 
 
 
 1,513,377 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 47,534 
 
 
 g) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Property and equipment 
 
 277 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 277 
 
 
 
 Exploration and
 evaluation 
 
 100,924 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 100,924 
 
 
 
 Goodwill 
 
 111,204 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 189,163 
 
 
 e) 
 
 
 300,367 
 
 
 
 Deferred income
 taxes 
 
 9,084 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 9,370 
 
 
 e) 
 
 
 18,454 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,421,569 
 
 
 628,744 
 
 
 279,065 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,329,378 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed
consolidated financial statements. 
3 
G-4

 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet 
 
 As at March 31, 2017 
 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 (Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Ltd 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro Forma 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro Forma 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Ltd 
 
 
 Orion 
 
 
 Adjustments 
 
 
 Note 4 
 
 
 Consolidated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Note 1
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Current liabilities

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accounts payable and accrued
 liabilities 
 
 4,244 
 
 
 2,216 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,460 
 
 
 
 Dividends
 payable 
 
 4,264 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,264 
 
 
 
 Provisions and other liabilities
 
 
 5,311 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,311 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,819 
 
 
 2,216 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 16,035 
 
 
 
 Non-current
 liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt 
 
 46,005 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 150,000 
 
 
 b) 
 
 
 196,005 
 
 
 
 Provisions and
 other liabilities 
 
 14,186 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,186 
 
 
 
 Deferred income taxes 
 
 128,842 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 1,228 
 
 
 e) 
 
 
 130,070 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 202,852 
 
 
 2,216 
 
 
 151,228 
 
 
 
 
 
 356,296 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share capital

 
 910,474 
 
 
 603,846 
 
 
 261,178 
 
 
 a) 
 
 
 1,672,839 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 501,187 
 
 
 c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (603,846
 ) 
 
 f) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Warrants 
 
 30,901 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 30,901 
 
 
 
 Contributed surplus 
 
 11,735 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,735 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity component of
 convertible debenture 
 
 3,091 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,091 
 
 
 
 Accumulated
 other comprehensive income 
 
 9,081 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,081 
 
 
 
 Retained earnings 
 
 251,635 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 (8,000
 ) 
 
 d) 
 
 
 243,635 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Equity attributable to
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd shareholders 
 
 1,216,917 
 
 
 603,846 
 
 
 150,519 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,971,282 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-controlling
 interest 
 
 1,800 
 
 
 22,682 
 
 
 (22,682
 ) 
 
 f) 
 
 
 1,800 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total equity 
 
 1,218,717 
 
 
 626,528 
 
 
 127,837 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,973,082 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,421,569 
 
 
 628,744 
 
 
 279,065 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,329,378 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed
consolidated financial statements. 
4 
G-5

 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) 
 
 For the three months ended March 31, 2017 
 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 (Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars, except per
 share amounts) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Ltd 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro Forma 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro Forma 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Ltd 
 
 
 Orion 
 
 
 Adjustments 
 
 
 Note 4 
 
 
 Consolidated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Note 1
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 17,126 
 
 
 29,805 
 
 
 1,710 
 
 
 g) 
 
 
 48,641 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 (102
 )

 
 (22,212
 )

 
 (1,203
 )

 
 g) 
 
 
 (23,517
 )
 
 
 
 Depletion of royalty, and stream and similar
 interests 
 
 (3,319
 ) 
 
 (7,528
 ) 
 
 (8,594
 ) 
 
 g), h) 
 
 
 (19,441
 ) 
 
 
 Gross profit 
 
 13,705 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 (8,087
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 5,683 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 General and administrative 
 
 (6,155
 ) 
 
 (1,966
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,121
 ) 
 
 
 Business
 development 
 
 (2,265
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,265
 )
 
 
 
 Exploration and evaluation 
 
 (42
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (42
 ) 
 
 
 Reversal of
 impairment of royalty, stream and similar interests 
 
 - 
 
 
 1,615 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,615 
 
 
 
 Cost recoveries from associates
 
 
 990 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 990 
 
 
 
 Other income 
 
 - 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating income
 (loss) 
 
 6,233 
 
 
 (281
 ) 
 
 (8,087
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 (2,135
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interest income
 
 
 1,278 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 (753
 )

 
 i) 
 
 
 540 
 
 
 
 Finance costs 
 
 (949
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 (1,025
 ) 
 
 j) 
 
 
 (1,974
 ) 
 
 
 Foreign exchange
 loss 
 
 (1,420
 )

 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,420
 )
 
 
 
 Share of loss of associates 
 
 (1,445
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,445
 ) 
 
 
 Other gains, net
 
 
 2,024 
 
 
 140 
 
 
 (140
 )

 
 k) 
 
 
 2,024 
 
 
 
 Earnings (loss) before income taxes

 
 5,721 
 
 
 (126
 ) 
 
 (10,005
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 (4,410
 ) 
 
 
 Income tax
 recovery (expense) 
 
 (1,721
 )

 
 (127
 )

 
 2,558 
 
 
 g), l) 
 
 
 710 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net earnings (loss)

 
 4,000 
 
 
 (253
 ) 
 
 (7,447
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 (3,700
 ) 
 
 
 Attributable to Osisko shareholders 
 
 4,076 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,624
 ) 
 
 
 Attributable to
 non-controlling interest 
 
 (76
 )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (76
 )
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net earnings (loss) per
 share (Note 5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Basic 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (0.02
 ) 
 
 
 Diluted 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (0.02
 )
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed
consolidated financial statements. 
5 
G-6

 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
 
 Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Income 
 
 For the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 (Expressed in thousands of Canadian dollars, except per
 share amounts) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Ltd 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Gold 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro Forma 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro Forma 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties Ltd 
 
 
 Orion 
 
 
 Adjustments 
 
 
 Note 4 
 
 
 Consolidated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Note 1
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 $
 $ 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 62,677 
 
 
 53,709 
 
 
 503 
 
 
 g) 
 
 
 116,889

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 - 
 
 
 (29,641
 ) 
 
 (132
 ) 
 
 g) 
 
 
 (29,773
 ) 
 
 
 Depletion of royalty, streams and similar
 interests 
 
 (11,291
 ) 
 
 (10,940
 ) 
 
 (7,044
 ) 
 
 g), h) 
 
 
 (29,275
 ) 
 
 
 Gross profit 
 
 51,386 
 
 
 13,128 
 
 
 (6,673
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 57,841 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 General and administrative 
 
 (16,858
 ) 
 
 (7,221
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (24,079
 ) 
 
 
 Business
 development 
 
 (8,282
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,282
 ) 
 
 
 Exploration and evaluation 
 
 1,240 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,240 
 
 
 
 Cost recoveries
 from associates 
 
 3,039 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,039 
 
 
 
 Reversal of impairment of
 royalty, stream and similar interests 
 
 - 
 
 
 19,875 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 19,875 
 
 
 
 Other expenses,
 net 
 
 (1,436
 ) 
 
 (229
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,665
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating income 
 
 29,089 
 
 
 25,553 
 
 
 (6,673
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 47,969 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Interest income
 
 
 3,260 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 (2,201
 ) 
 
 i) 
 
 
 1,063 
 
 
 
 Dividends 
 
 4,931 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,931 
 
 
 
 Finance costs

 
 (3,435
 ) 
 
 (1,255
 ) 
 
 (4,094
 ) 
 
 j) 
 
 
 (8,784
 ) 
 
 
 Foreign exchange loss 
 
 (5,846
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5,846
 ) 
 
 
 Share of loss of
 associates 
 
 (6,623
 ) 
 
 - 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6,623
 ) 
 
 
 Other gains (losses), net 
 
 30,202 
 
 
 (452
 ) 
 
 396 
 
 
 k) 
 
 
 30,146 
 
 
 
 Earnings before income
 taxes 
 
 51,578 
 
 
 23,850 
 
 
 (12,572
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 62,856 
 
 
 
 Income tax expense 
 
 (9,724
 ) 
 
 (506
 ) 
 
 4,460 
 
 
 g), l) 
 
 
 (5,770
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net earnings 
 
 41,854 
 
 
 23,344 
 
 
 (8,112
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 57,086 
 
 
 
 Attributable to Osisko
 shareholders 
 
 42,113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 57,345 
 
 
 
 Attributable to non-controlling interest 
 
 (259
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (259
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net earnings per share (Note 5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Basic 
 
 0.40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.37 
 
 
 
 Diluted 
 
 0.40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.37 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed
consolidated financial statements. 
6 
G-7

 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
 
 Notes to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial
 Statements 
 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts expressed in thousands of Canadian
 dollars, except per share amounts) 

 
 1. 
 
 BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The unaudited pro forma condensed
consolidated financial statements (the "Pro Forma Financial Statements") have
been prepared by Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd's (“Osisko” or the “Company”)
management in connection with Osisko’s acquisition of a portfolio of assets
consisting of 74 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes from Orion Mine
Finance (Master) Fund I LP, Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion
Co-Investments I (Stream) LLC, Orion Co-Investments II LP, Orion Co-Investments
IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited, and Lynx Metals Limited (collectively, "Orion").

The Pro Forma Financial Statements have
been prepared for illustrative purposes only and give effect to the transactions
as defined in Note 3 and pursuant to the assumptions and adjustments described
in Note 4. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as at March 31,
2017 has been prepared as if the transactions described in Note 3 had occurred
on March 31, 2017. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for
the year ended December 31, 2016 and the unaudited pro forma consolidated
statement of income (loss) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 have been
prepared as if the transactions described in Note 3 had occurred on January 1,
2016. 
The Pro Forma Financial Statements are
not necessarily indicative of the financial position and results of operations
that would have been achieved if the acquisition had been completed on the dates
or for the period presented, nor do they claim to project the results of
operations or financial position of the entity for any future period or as of
any future date. Any potential synergies that may be realized and integration
costs that may be incurred after the acquisition date have been excluded from
these statements. 
In preparing the unaudited pro forma
consolidated balance sheet and the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements
of income (loss), the following historical information, that was prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") as issued
by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), was used: 

 
 
 a) 
 
 For the unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as
 at March 31, 2017:

 
 
 (i) 
 
 the unaudited interim consolidated balance sheet of
 Osisko as at March 31, 2017.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 the unaudited interim combined balance sheet of Orion as
 at March 31, 2017.

 
 
 b) 
 
 For the unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of
 income for the year ended December 31, 2016:

 
 
 (i) 
 
 the audited consolidated statement of income of Osisko
 for the year ended December 31, 2016.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 the audited combined statement of income and
 comprehensive income of Orion for the year ended December 31,
 2016.

 
 
 c) 
 
 For the unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of
 income (loss) for the three months ended March 31,
2017:

 
 
 
 (i)
 
 the unaudited interim consolidated statement of income of
 Osisko for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 The unaudited interim combined statement of income and
 comprehensive income of Orion for the three months ended March 31,
 2017.
Orion’s combined financial statements are presented in U.S.
dollars. They were converted into Canadian dollars using the closing exchange
rate of 1.3322 at the balance sheet date for the unaudited interim combined
balance sheet as at March 31, 2017 and the average exchange rate of 1.3238 for
the unaudited interim combined statement of income and comprehensive income for
the three months ended March 31, 2017 and the average exchange rate of 1.3248
for the audited combined statement of income and comprehensive income for the
year ended December 31, 2016. 
The Pro Forma Financial Statements should be read in
conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and combined
financial statements, together with the notes thereto, of Osisko and Orion,
respectively, referred to above which are available at www.sedar.com,
www.sec.gov or included in the Notice of Meeting and Management
Information Circular for the Special Meeting of Shareholders of Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd dated as of June 29, 2017 and filed on www.sedar and
furnished on www.sec.gov.
In the opinion of Osisko's management, these Pro Forma
Financial Statements include all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation
of the transactions described in the notes to the Pro Forma Financial Statements
and applied on a basis consistent with Osisko's accounting policies. 

 
 2. 
 
 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES
The accounting policies used in
preparing the Pro Forma Financial Statements are set out in Osisko’s audited
consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016, which
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Certain assets, liabilities, revenues,
expenses, gains and losses of Orion have been reclassified to conform to
Osisko's consolidated financial statements presentation. 
7 
G-8

 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
 
 Notes to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial
 Statements 
 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts expressed in thousands of Canadian
 dollars, except per share amounts) 

 
 3. 
 
 AGREEMENT AND RELATED
 TRANSACTIONS
On June 4, 2017, Osisko entered into a
definitive agreement with Orion to acquire a precious metals portfolio of assets
consisting of 61 royalties, 7 precious metal offtakes, and 6 streams for $675
million in cash consideration and 30,906,594 common shares of Osisko to be
issued to Orion (the “Purchase Price”) (the “Transaction”), excluding
adjustments related to the working capital acquired. 
The combination of Osisko and Orion’s
portfolios will result in Osisko holding a total of 131 royalties, streams and
offtakes, including 16 revenue-generating assets. Through the Transaction, the
Company gains a 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard diamond mine (“Renard Diamond
Stream”) and a 4% gold and silver stream on the Brucejack gold and silver mine,
all of which are new mines in Canada, in addition to a 100% silver stream on the
Mantos Blancos copper mine in Chile. In the case of the Renard Diamond Stream,
6.84% of the stream is included in the combined financial statements of Orion.
The interest held by other co-investors has been included in the pro forma
adjustments as described in Note 4 g). At the closing of the Transaction, Orion
will cause the complete 9.6% Renard Diamond Stream, including the percentage
held by other co-investors, to be sold to Osisko. 
The Purchase Price paid to Orion will
consist of $675 million in cash consideration and 30,906,594 common shares of
Osisko to be issued to Orion (“Orion Shares”) having an aggregate value of
$501.3 million (“Share Consideration”) based on the $16.22 closing share price
on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) on June 26, 2017. As part of the
Transaction, CDP Investissements Inc. (“CDP”), an affiliate of Caisse de dépôt
et placement du Québec (“Caisse”) and the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs
du Québec (F.T.Q.) (“Fonds F.T.Q.”) will be subscribing for $200 million and $75
million in common shares of Osisko, respectively, as part of a concurrent
private placement (“Private Placement”) to fund a portion of the cash
consideration and support the Transaction. A total of 18,887,363 common shares
(“Private Placement Shares”) will be issued at a price of $14.56 per share under
the Private Placement. The Private Placement is subject to a 7% capital
commitment payment payable partially in shares (2% representing 385,457 common
shares) and in cash (5% representing $13.8 million). Additionally, Osisko will
draw approximately $150 million under its revolving credit facility with the
National Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal, and approximately $250 million
will be funded from Osisko’s current cash and cash equivalents balance. 
The issuance of the Orion Shares and
the Private Placement Shares is subject to approval by a simple majority of
Osisko’s shareholders. A special meeting of Osisko shareholders is expected to
be held on July 31, 2017, with closing of the Transaction expected on or around
July 31, 2017, subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of
approval by Osisko’s shareholders and certain regulatory approvals, as well as
the approval of the TSX and the New York Stock Exchange. The Transaction’s
economic effective date will be June 1, 2017. 
Following the Transaction, Orion,
Caisse and its affiliates and Fonds F.T.Q. will hold respectively approximately
19.7%, 12.1% and 5.5% of Osisko’s issued and outstanding common shares, based on
the number of common shares of Osisko outstanding at the closing on June 26,
2017. Any sale of the Orion Shares will be subject to certain restrictions,
including a 12-month hold period and a broad distribution requirement. 
The transaction with Orion is expected
to be accounted for as a business combination with Osisko as the acquirer. 
The assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed are to be recorded at their estimated fair market values at the time of
the closing of the acquisition and are based on preliminary management estimates
and subject to final valuation adjustments. As such, the preliminary estimates
of the consideration paid and the net assets acquired, which are subject to
change, are summarized as follows: 

 
 
 
 Purchase Price 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash(1)
 
 
 675,000 
 
 
 
 
 Cash for working capital
 acquired(1) 
 
 17,445 
 
 
 
 
 Common shares of
 Osisko to be issued(2) 
 
 501,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,193,750 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net assets acquired:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash
 equivalents 
 
 15,520 
 
 
 
 
 Other current assets 
 
 4,141 
 
 
 
 
 Royalty, stream
 and similar interests(3) 
 
 979,000 
 
 
 
 
 Goodwill 
 
 189,163 
 
 
 
 
 Deferred tax
 assets 
 
 9,370 
 
 
 
 
 Current liabilities 
 
 (2,216
 ) 
 
 
 
 Deferred tax
 liabilities 
 
 (1,228
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,193,750 
 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 Based on the cash consideration to be paid for the
 acquisition of the royalties, streams and offtakes of $675 million and the
 cash consideration to be paid for the acquisition of the working capital
 of Orion of $17.4 million as at March 31, 2017, for a total of $692.4
 million. The cash consideration to be paid for the acquisition of the
 working capital of Orion will be adjusted to the actual figures based on
 the fair value of the working capital on the effective date of the
 Transaction, June 1, 2017.
8 
G-9

 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
 
 Notes to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial
 Statements 
 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts expressed in thousands of Canadian
 dollars, except per share amounts) 

 
 3. 
 
 AGREEMENT AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 (CONTINUED)

 
 
 (2) 
 
 Based on 30,906,594 common shares to be issued at a price
 of $16.22, representing the closing price of the common shares of Osisko
 on the TSX on June 26, 2017, representing $501.2 million, net of share
 issue costs estimated at $0.1 million. The purchase price will be adjusted
 to the actual figures on the closing date of the Transaction based on the
 closing price of the common shares of Osisko on the TSX.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 
 Including the additional interest in the Renard Stream –
 see Note 4 g).

 
 4. 
 
 PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS
The Pro Forma Financial Statements
include the following assumptions and adjustments to give effect to the
Transaction: 

 
 
 a) 
 
 To reflect the Private Placement by CDP and Fonds F.T.Q.
 for gross proceeds of $275 million. A total of 18,887,363 common shares
 will be issued at a price of $14.56 per share. The Private Placement is
 subject to a 7% capital commitment payment payable partially in shares
 (385,457 common shares) and in cash ($13.8 million). The net proceeds
 after the payment of the capital commitment and other fees are estimated
 at $261.2 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 b) 
 
 To reflect the financing of $150 million under the
 revolving credit facility with the National Bank of Canada and Bank of
 Montreal.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 c) 
 
 To record the acquisition of Orion by Osisko at a
 Purchase Price of $1,193.8 million as described in Note 3.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 d) 
 
 Total transaction costs of Osisko after the balance sheet
 date have been estimated at $8.0 million based on management's best
 estimate. Those costs are to be expensed through net income but have not
 resulted in a pro forma adjustment to the pro forma consolidated
 statements of income (loss) since these charges are non-recurring expenses
 directly attributable to the acquisition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 e) 
 
 To adjust the acquired royalty, stream and similar
 interests to their estimated fair value and the resulting deferred income
 tax effects and goodwill.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 f) 
 
 To eliminate the historical book values of Orion’s equity
 and non-controlling interest.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 g) 
 
 To reflect revenues, costs of sales and depletion of
 assets acquired but not included in Orion’s combined financial statements
 representing the interest of co-investors in the Renard Stream, as
 described in Note 3.

 
 
 
 
 
 Three months ended
 
 
 
 Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 March 31, 2017 
 
 
 December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Statement of Income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 1,710 
 
 
 503 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 (1,203
 )

 
 (132
 )
 
 
 
 
 Depletion of royalty, stream and similar
 interests 
 
 (2,502
 ) 
 
 (249
 ) 
 
 
 
 Gross profit (loss) 
 
 (1,995
 )

 
 122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income tax recovery (expense)
 
 
 529 
 
 
 (32
 )
 
 
 
 
 Net earnings (loss) 
 
 (1,466
 ) 
 
 90 
 
The carrying value of the
co-investors’ interest in the Renard Stream amounted to $47.5 million as at
March 31, 2017, and is included in Royalty, stream and similar interests
on the balance sheet. 

 
 
 h) 
 
 To adjust depletion based on the fair value of the
 royalty, stream and offtake interests acquired from Orion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 i) 
 
 To reflect the estimated interest income decrease that
 would have been incurred if the transaction had occurred on January 1,
 2016 based on the cash consideration paid from current cash and cash
 equivalents and the estimated other fees and expenses related to the
 Transaction and Private Placement that would have also been paid from
 current cash and cash equivalents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 j) 
 
 To reflect the additional interest expense on the $150
 million credit facility to be drawn based on a rate of 3.03%, net of
 stand-by fees.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 k) 
 
 To eliminate realized gains and losses on Orion’s
 available-for-sale investments to conform to Osisko’s accounting policies
 under IFRS 9, Financial Instruments whereby such investments are
 designated at fair value through other comprehensive income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 l) 
 
 To reflect the income tax impact of the pro forma
 adjustments on the statements of income.
9 
G-10

 
 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
 
 Notes to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial
 Statements 
 
 (Unaudited) 
 
 (Tabular amounts expressed in thousands of Canadian
 dollars, except per share amounts) 

 
 5. 
 
 EARNINGS (LOSS) PER
SHARE

 
 
 
 
 
 Three months ended
 
 
 
 Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 (number of shares expressed in
 thousands) 
 
 March 31, 2017 
 
 
 December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro forma net earnings
 (loss) attributable to Osisko shareholders 
 
 (3,624
 ) 
 
 57,345

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro forma net earnings
 (loss) per share – basic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Historical weighted average number of Osisko
 common shares outstanding – basic 
 
 106,543 
 
 
 104,671 
 
 
 
 
 Shares issued – Private
 Placement with CDP and Fonds F.T.Q. 
 
 19,273 
 
 
 19,273 
 
 
 
 
 Shares issued – Transaction with Orion 
 
 30,907 
 
 
 30,907 
 
 
 
 
 Pro forma weighted average
 number of common shares outstanding – basic 
 
 156,723 
 
 
 154,851 
 
 
 
 
 Pro forma net earnings (loss) per share –
 basic 
 
 (0.02
 ) 
 
 0.37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro forma net earnings (loss) per share
 - diluted 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Historical weighted average
 number of Osisko common shares outstanding – diluted 
 
 - 
 
 
 104,824 
 
 
 
 
 Shares issued – Private Placement with CDP
 and Fonds F.T.Q. 
 
 - 
 
 
 19,273 
 
 
 
 
 Shares issued – Transaction
 with Orion 
 
 - 
 
 
 30,907 
 
 
 
 
 Pro forma weighted average number of common
 shares outstanding – diluted 
 
 n/a(1)
 
 
 155,004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro forma net earnings (loss) per share –
 diluted 
 
 (0.02
 ) 
 
 0.37 
 

 
 
 1) 
 
 As a result of the pro forma net loss for the three
 months ended March 31, 2017, all potentially dilutive common shares are
 deemed to be antidilutive and thus diluted net loss per share is equal to
 the basic net loss per share.
10 
G-11

ANY QUESTIONS AND REQUESTS FOR VOTING ASSISTANCE MAY BE
DIRECTED TO THEPROXY SOLICITATION AGENT: 

 
North American Toll-Free: 1-877-452-7184 Collect Calls
Outside North America: 416-304-0211 Email: assistance@laurelhill.com