EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO ACQUIRES ADDITIONAL GOLD ROYALTY ON BARKERVILLE’S
CARIBOO GOLD PROJECT IN CANADA 
(Montréal, September 6, 2018) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(“Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to announce that it has entered into
a second amended and restated royalty purchase agreement (the “Agreement”) with
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. (“Barkerville”) pursuant to which it will acquire an
additional 1.75% net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty (the “Royalty”) for the
aggregate purchase price of C$20 million (the “Royalty Purchase”) on the Cariboo
property (the “Property”) located in British Columbia, Canada (the “Royalty
Transaction”).
Under the terms of the Agreement, Barkerville also has the
option to grant Osisko an additional 1% NSR royalty on the Property (the
“Royalty Option”) for additional cash consideration of C$13 million, at any
point between the closing date of the Royalty Transaction and December 31, 2018
(the "Royalty Option Period"). In the event that (i) Barkerville announces a
change of control during the Royalty Option Period, or (ii) Osisko participates
in an equity financing of Barkerville during the Royalty Option Period, if the
Royalty Option remains unexercised, Osisko will have the right to purchase the
Royalty Option. 
The Royalty Transaction will have the effect of increasing
Osisko’s existing royalty on the Property to a total of 4% NSR royalty, and a
total of 5% NSR royalty if the Royalty Option is exercised. 
The acquisition of the Royalty provides Osisko with: 

 
A meaningful NSR royalty on a significant and growing
 Canadian high-grade gold deposit; 
 
 
Increased exposure to continued exploration success and
 resource growth from an extensive land package representing one of the
 most advanced exploration projects in Canada; and 
 
 
Near-term cash flow from ongoing small-scale production
 from the Property while Barkerville continues to develop a larger scale
 long-term mining plan on the Property. 
 

As part of the Royalty Transaction, Barkerville will grant to
Osisko 10,000,000 common share purchase warrants (the "Warrants"). The Warrants
will be exchangeable for common shares of Barkerville (the "Common Shares") at
an exercise price of $0.75 per Common Share for a period of 36 months following
the closing of the Royalty Transaction. 
The Cariboo Gold Project 
The Cariboo Gold Project currently hosts 1.6 million ounces in
measured & indicated gold resources from 8.1 million tonnes of ore with a
grade of 6.1 grams of gold per tonne and 2.16 million ounces in inferred
resources from 12.7 million tonnes of ore with a grade of 5.2 grams of gold per
tonne, as outlined in a National Instrument 43-101 report filed on SEDAR by
Barkerville. The Property’s mineral tenures cover 1,950 square kilometres along
a strike length of 67 kilometres, which includes several past producing placer
and hard rock mines, making it one of the most well-endowed land packages in
British Columbia. The Bonanza deposit is currently being processed at
Barkerville’s QR mill. QR is a fully owned, permitted mill and tailings
facility, located approximately 110 kilometres away from Wells, and can be accessed by an all-season road. Barkerville’s
Greenfield team is developing quality exploration assets throughout the
remaining Property through systematic, scientific, exploration. 
1 

Immediately prior to the closing of the Royalty Transaction,
 Osisko had beneficial ownership of, or control and direction over, (i)
 142,309,310 Common Shares, representing approximately 32.4% of the issued and
 outstanding Common Shares, and (ii) 5,666,527 Warrants. Immediately following
 the closing of the Royalty Transaction Osisko will have beneficial ownership of,
 or control and direction over, (i) 142,309,310 Common Shares, representing
 approximately 32.4% of the issued and outstanding Common Shares, and (ii)
 15,666,527 Warrants. Following the closing of the Royalty Transaction and after
 giving effect to the exercise of all the Warrants then held by Osisko, Osisko
 would have beneficial ownership of, or control and direction over, 157,975,837
 Common Shares, representing approximately 34.7% of the Common Shares that would
 then be issued and outstanding. Osisko acquired the Warrants for investment
 purposes and in accordance with applicable securities laws, Osisko may, from
 time to time and at any time, acquire additional Common Shares and/or other
 equity, debt or other securities or instruments (collectively, "Securities") of
 Barkerville in the open market or otherwise, and reserves the right to dispose
 of any or all of its Securities in the open market or otherwise at any time and
 from time to time, and to engage in similar transactions with respect to the
 Securities, the whole depending on market conditions, the business and prospects
of Barkerville and other relevant factors.
Certain sections of this news release are issued under the
early warning provisions of the Canadian securities legislation. A copy of the
early warning report to be filed by Osisko in connection with the transaction
described above will be available on SEDAR under Barkerville's profile. To
obtain a copy of the early warning report, you may also contact Joseph de la
Plante, Vice President, Corporate Development of Osisko at (514) 940-0670.
Barkerville's head office is located at 1055 West Hastings Street, Suite 2200,
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6E 2E9. 
Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P. Geo, is the qualified person for
this release as defined by National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of
Disclosure for Mineral Projects and has reviewed and verified the technical
information contained herein. Mr. Guy Desharnais is an employee of Osisko and is
non-independent. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Following the acquisition of the Orion portfolio, it now holds a North American
focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes.
Osisko’s portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone assets, including a 5% NSR
royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine, which is the largest gold mine in Canada.
Osisko also owns a portfolio of investments in publicly held resource companies,
including a 15.5% interest in Osisko Mining Inc. and a 12.7% interest in Falco
Resources Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2.
2 

Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
 deemed “forward-looking information” and "forward-looking statements" within the
 meaning of applicable Canadian Securities Laws and the United States Private
 Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (collectively, the “forward-looking
 statements”). All statements in this release, other than statements of
 historical facts, that address future events, developments or performance that
 Osisko expects to occur including management’s expectations regarding the
 closing of the Royalty Transaction, the benefits of the Royalty to Osisko and
 the cash flows to be generated from the Royalty, mineral reserve and mineral
 resource estimates are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
 are statements that are not historical facts and are generally, but not always, identified by the words “expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”,
 “believes”, “intends”, “estimates”, “projects”, “potential”, “scheduled” and
 similar expressions or variations (Including negative variations), or that
 events or conditions “will”, “would”, “may”, “could” or “should” occur
 including, without limitation, the performance of the assets of Osisko, the
 realization of the anticipated benefits deriving from its investments and the
 transaction with Barkerville. Although Osisko believes the expectations
 expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable
 assumptions, such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
 other factors and are not guarantees of future performance and actual results
 may accordingly differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
 Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in
 forward-looking statements include, without limitation: fluctuations in the
 prices of the commodities that drive royalties held by Osisko (gold and silver);
 fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar;
 regulatory changes in national and local government, including permitting and
 licensing regimes and taxation policies; regulations and political or economic
 developments in any of the countries where properties in which Osisko holds a
 royalty or other interest are located or through which they are held; risks
 related to the operators of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty,
 influence of macroeconomic developments; business opportunities that become
 available to, or are pursued by Osisko; continued availability of capital and
 financing and general economic, market or business conditions; litigation;
 title, permit or license disputes related to interests on any of the properties
 in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest; development, permitting,
 infrastructure, operating or technical difficulties, delays or adverse climatic
 conditions on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other
 interest; rate and timing of production differences from resource estimates or
 production forecasts by operators of properties in which Osisko holds a royalty
 or other interest; risks and hazards associated with the business of exploring,
 development and mining on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty
 or other interest, including, but not limited to unusual or unexpected
 geological and metallurgical conditions, slope failures or cave-ins, flooding
 and other natural disasters or civil unrest or other uninsured risks.
For additional information with respect to these and other
 factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
 press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most recent Annual
 Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
 commissions and available electronically under Osisko's issuer profile on SEDAR
 at www.sedar.com
 and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
 The forward-looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations
 as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
 Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
 forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
For further information please contact, please contact
Osisko Gold Royalties: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
3