EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. : Exhibit 99.1- Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
EARLY WARNING NEWS RELEASE 
(Montréal, April 2, 2018) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (TSX
& NYSE:OR) (“Osisko”) announces that it has subscribed for and received from
Niobay Metals Inc. (TSXV:NBY) (“Niobay”) 9,000,000 common shares of Niobay at a
price of $0.26 per share by way of a private placement of Niobay, for an
aggregate subscription price of $2,340,000 (the “Private Placement”’) 
Immediately prior to the closing of the Private Placement,
Osisko did not have beneficial ownership of, or control and direction over, any
common shares of Niobay.
Immediately following the closing of the Private Placement,
Osisko owns beneficial ownership of, or control and direction over 9,000,000
common shares, representing approximately 19.7% of Niobay’s issued and
outstanding common shares. 
Osisko acquired the common shares described in this press
release for investment purposes and in accordance with applicable securities
laws, Osisko may, from time to time and at any time, acquire additional shares
and/or other equity, debt or other securities or instruments (collectively,
“Securities”) of Niobay in the open market or otherwise, and reserves the right
to dispose of any or all of its Securities in the open market or otherwise at
any time and from time to time, and to engage in similar transactions with
respect to the Securities, the whole depending on market conditions, the
business and prospects of Niobay and other relevant factors. 
A copy of the early warning report to be filed by Osisko in
connection with the Private Placement described above will be available on SEDAR
under Niobay’ profile. This news release is issued under the early warning
provisions of the Canadian securities legislation. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams
and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone
assets, including a 5% net smelter return royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine,
which is the largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of
publicly held resource companies, including a 15.5% interest in Osisko Mining
Inc., a 12.7% interest in Falco Resources Ltd. and a 32.7% interest in
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
For further information please contact, please contact
Osisko: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com

 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com