EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 
 

 
 
ANNUAL INFORMATION FORM 
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018

 
 

DATED AS OF MARCH 28, 2019 
 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
 GENERAL
 MATTERS 
 3
 
 
 
 
 
 CAUTIONARY
 STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
 3
 
 
 
 
 
 CAUTIONARY
 NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS REGARDING PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL
 INFORMATION 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 CAUTIONARY
 NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS REGARDING THE USE OF MINERAL RESERVE
 AND MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES 
 5
 
 
 
 
 
 EXCHANGE
 RATE DATA 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 GLOSSARY
 OF TERMS 
 7
 
 
 
 
 
 CORPORATE
 STRUCTURE 
 21
 
 
 
 
 
 DESCRIPTION
 OF BUSINESS 
 22
 
 
 
 
 
 SUSTAINABILITY
 ACTIVITIES 
 34
 
 
 
 
 
 GENERAL
 DEVELOPMENT OF OSISKO’S BUSINESS 
 36
 
 
 
 
 
 RISK
 FACTORS 
 45
 
 
 
 
 
 MATERIAL
 MINERAL PROJECTS 
 58
 
 
 
 
 
 DIVIDENDS
 
 61
 
 
 
 
 
 DESCRIPTION
 OF CAPITAL STRUCTURE 
 62
 
 
 
 
 
 MARKET
 FOR SECURITIES 
 65
 
 
 
 
 
 DIRECTORS
 AND OFFICERS 
 67
 
 
 
 
 
 LEGAL
 PROCEEDINGS AND REGULATORY ACTIONS 
 76
 
 
 
 
 
 INTEREST
 OF MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS 
 76
 
 
 
 
 
 TRANSFER
 AGENTS AND REGISTRARS 
 76
 
 
 
 
 
 MATERIAL
 CONTRACTS 
 76
 
 
 
 
 
 INTERESTS
 OF EXPERTS 
 77
 
 
 
 
 
 ADDITIONAL
 INFORMATION 
 77
 
 
 
 
 
 AUDIT
 COMMITTEE 
 78
 
 
 
 
 
 SCHEDULE
 A - AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER 
 81
 
 
 
 
 
 SCHEDULE
 B - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE CANADIAN MALARTIC
 PROPERTIES 
 87
 
 
 
 
 
 SCHEDULE
 C - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE ÉLÉONORE MINE 
 99
 
 
 
 
 
 SCHEDULE
 D - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE RENARD DIAMOND MINE 
 110
 
 
 
 
 
 SCHEDULE
 E - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE MANTOS BLANCOS MINE 
 145
 
2 

GENERAL MATTERS 
The information contained in this Annual Information Form,
unless otherwise indicated, is given as of December 31, 2018. More current
information may be available on our public website at www.osiskogr.com, on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. In addition, we generally maintain
supporting materials on our website which may assist in reviewing (but are not
to be considered part of) this Annual Information Form. 
All capitalized terms used in this Annual Information Form and
not defined herein have the meaning ascribed in the “Glossary of Terms” or
elsewhere in this Annual Information Form.
Unless otherwise noted or the context otherwise indicates, the
term “Osisko” refers to Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd and its subsidiaries.
For reporting purposes, Osisko presents its financial
statements in Canadian dollars and in conformity with IFRS. 
Unless otherwise indicated herein, references to “$”, “C$” or
“Canadian dollars” are to Canadian dollars, and references to “US$” or “U.S.
dollars” are to United States dollars. See “Exchange Rate Data”. See also
“Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements contained in this Annual Information Form
may be deemed “forward looking information” and “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of applicable Canadian Securities Laws and the United
States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (collectively, the
“forward-looking statements”). All statements in this Annual Information
Form, other than statements of historical fact, that address future events,
developments or performance that Osisko expects to occur including management’s
expectations regarding Osisko’s growth, results of operations, estimated future
revenues, requirements for additional capital, mineral reserve and mineral
resource estimates, production estimates, production costs and revenue, future
demand for and prices of commodities, business prospects and opportunities are
forward-looking statements. In addition, statements (including data in tables)
relating to mineral reserves and mineral resources and gold equivalent ounces
are forward-looking statements, as they involve implied assessment, based on
certain estimates and assumptions, and no assurance can be given that the
estimates will be realized. Forward-looking statements are statements that are
not historical facts and are generally, but not always, identified by the words
“expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “intends”, “estimates”,
“projects”, “potential”, “scheduled” and similar expressions or variations
(including negative variations), or that events or conditions “will”, “would”,
“may”, “could” or “should” occur including, without limitation, the performance
of the assets of Osisko, and the growth of and the benefits deriving from its
portfolio of investments. Although Osisko believes the expectations expressed in
such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and
are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may accordingly
differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Factors that could
cause the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking
statements include, without limitation: fluctuations in the prices of the
commodities that drive royalties, streams or other interests held by Osisko;
fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar;
regulatory changes in national and local government, including permitting and
licensing regimes and taxation policies; whether or not Osisko is determined to
have “passive foreign investment company” status (“PFIC”) as defined in
Section 1297 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended; potential changes in Canadian tax treatment of offshore streams;
regulations and political or economic developments in any of the countries where
properties in which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests are
located or through which they are held; risks related to the operators of the
properties in which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests;
influence of macroeconomic developments; business opportunities that become
available to, or are pursued by Osisko; continued availability of capital and
financing and general economic, market or business conditions; litigation;
title, permit or license disputes related to interests on any of the properties in which Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests; development, permitting, infrastructure,
operating or technical difficulties on any of the properties in which Osisko
holds royalties, stream or other interests; rate and timing of production
differences from resource estimates or production forecasts by operators of
properties in which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests; risks
and hazards associated with the business of exploring, development and mining on
any of the properties in which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other
interests, including, but not limited to unusual or unexpected geological and
metallurgical conditions, slope failures or cave-ins, flooding and other natural
disasters or civil unrest or other uninsured risks. The forward-looking
statements contained in this Annual Information Form are based upon assumptions
management believes to be reasonable, including, without limitation: the ongoing
operation by the operators of the properties in which Osisko holds royalties,
streams or other interests by the operators of such properties in a manner
consistent with past practice; the accuracy of public statements and disclosures
made by the operators of such underlying properties; the absence of material
adverse change in the market price of the commodities that underlie the asset
portfolio; Osisko’s ongoing income and assets relating to determination of its
PFIC status; no material changes to existing tax treatment; no adverse
development in respect of any significant property in which Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests; the accuracy of publicly disclosed
expectations for the development of underlying properties that are not yet in
production; and the absence of any other factors that could cause actions,
events or results to differ from those anticipated, estimated or intended. 
3 

Although Osisko has attempted to identify important factors
that could cause actual plans, actions, events or results to differ materially
from those described in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors
that cause plans, actions, events or results not to be as anticipated, estimated
or intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will
prove to be accurate, as actual plans, results and future events could differ
materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, readers
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 
Certain of the forward-looking statements and other information
contained herein concerning the mining industry and Osisko’s general
expectations concerning the mining industry are based on estimates prepared by
Osisko using data from publicly available industry sources as well as from
market research and industry analysis and on assumptions based on data and
knowledge of this industry which Osisko believes to be reasonable. However,
although generally indicative of relative market positions, market shares and
performance characteristics, this data is inherently imprecise. While Osisko is
not aware of any misstatement regarding any industry data presented herein, the
mining industry involves risks and uncertainties that are subject to change
based on various factors. 
The readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements. Osisko undertakes no obligation to update any of the
forward-looking statements in this Annual Information Form, except as required
by law. Unless otherwise indicated, these statements are made as of the date of
this Annual Information Form. 
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS
REGARDINGPREPARATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
As a Canadian company, Osisko prepares its financial statements
in accordance with IFRS. Consequently, all of the financial statements and
financial information of Osisko is prepared in accordance with IFRS, which are
materially different than financial statements and financial information
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

4 

CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS REGARDINGTHE USE
OF MINERAL RESERVE AND MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES 
Osisko is subject to the reporting requirements of the
applicable Canadian securities laws, and as a result reports its mineral
resources and the mineral reserves and mineral resources of the projects it has
an interest in according to Canadian standards. Canadian reporting requirements
for disclosure of mineral properties are governed by NI 43-101. The definitions
of NI 43-101 are adopted from those given by the CIM. U.S. reporting
requirements are currently governed by Guide 7. This Annual Information Form
includes estimates of mineral reserves and mineral resources reported in
accordance with NI 43-101. These reporting standards have similar goals in terms
of conveying an appropriate level of confidence in the disclosures being
reported, but embody different approaches and definitions. For example, under
Guide 7, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the
determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and
legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made.
Consequently, the definitions of “Proven Mineral Reserves” and “Probable Mineral
Reserves” under CIM standards differ in certain respects from the standards of
Guide 7. Osisko also reports estimates of “mineral resources” in accordance with
NI 43-101. While the terms “Mineral Resource,” “Measured Mineral Resource,”
“Indicated Mineral Resource” and “Inferred Mineral Resource” are recognized by
NI 43-101, they are not defined terms under Guide 7 and, generally, U.S.
companies reporting pursuant to Guide 7 are not permitted to report estimates of
mineral resources of any category in documents filed with the SEC. As such,
certain information contained in this Annual Information Form concerning
descriptions of mineralization and estimates of mineral reserves and mineral
resources under Canadian standards is not comparable to similar information made
public by United States companies subject to the reporting and disclosure
requirements of the SEC pursuant to Guide 7. Readers are cautioned not to assume
that all or any part of Measured Mineral Resources or Indicated Mineral
Resources will ever be converted into Mineral Reserves. Readers are also
cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource
exists, or is economically or legally mineable. Further, an “Inferred Mineral
Resource” has a great amount of uncertainty as to its existence and as to its
economic and legal feasibility, and a reader cannot assume that all or any part
of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources may not form the
basis of feasibility or other economic studies. 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING THIRD PARTY INFORMATION

The disclosure in this Annual Information Form relating to the
properties in which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests and the
operations on such properties is based on information publicly disclosed by the
owners or operators of these properties and information or data available in the
public domain as at March 28, 2019 (except where stated otherwise), and none of
this information or data has been independently verified by Osisko. As a holder
of royalties, streams and other interests, Osisko generally has limited, if any,
access to the properties included in or relating to its asset portfolio.
Therefore, in preparing disclosure pertaining to the properties in which Osisko
holds royalties, streams or other interests and the operations on such
properties, Osisko is dependent on information publicly disclosed by the owners
or operators of these properties and information or data available in the public
domain and generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such
information or data. Although Osisko has no knowledge that such information or
data is incomplete or inaccurate, there can be no assurance that such third
party information or data is complete or accurate. Additionally, some
information or data publicly reported by the owners or operators may relate to a
larger property than the area covered by the royalties, streams or other
interests of Osisko. Sometimes, the royalties, streams or other interests of
Osisko cover less than 100% and sometimes only a portion of the publicly
reported mineral reserves, mineral resources or production of a property. 
NON-IFRS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
Osisko has included certain non-IFRS measures including
“Adjusted Earnings” and “Adjusted Earnings per basic share” (which have no
standard definition under IFRS) to supplement its consolidated financial
statements, which are presented in accordance with IFRS. 
5 

Osisko believes that these measures, together with measures
determined in accordance with IFRS, provide investors with an improved ability
to evaluate the underlying performance of Osisko. Non-IFRS measures do not have
any standardized meaning prescribed under IFRS, and, therefore, they may not be
comparable to similar measures employed by other companies. The data is intended
to provide additional information and should not be considered in isolation or
as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.

For information regarding the non-IFRS financial measures used
by Osisko, see “Non-IFRS Financial Performance Measures” in Osisko’s MD&A for
the year ended December 31, 2018, which section is incorporated by reference
herein. The financial statements and MD&As of Osisko are available on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com. 
EXCHANGE RATE DATA 
The following table sets forth the high and low exchange rates
for one U.S. dollar expressed in Canadian dollars for each period indicated, the
average of the exchange rates for each period indicated and the exchange rate at
the end of each such period, based upon the exchange rates provided by the Bank
of Canada: 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31 
 
 
 2018 
 2017 
 2016 
 
 ($C) 
 ($C) 
 (C$) 
 
 High 
 1.3642 
 1.3743 
 1.4589 
 
 Low 
 1.2288 
 1.2128 
 1.2544 
 
 Average rate for period 
 1.2957 
 1.2986 
 1.3248 
 
 Rate at end of period 
 1.3642 
 1.2545 
 1.3427 

On March 27, 2019, the exchange rate for one U.S. dollar
expressed in Canadian dollars as reported by the Bank of Canada, was 1.3414.

6 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
In this Annual Information Form, the following capitalized
words and terms shall have the following meanings: 
“2016 Underwriters” means BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc., RBC
Dominion Securities Inc., National Bank Financial Inc., Macquarie Capital
Markets Canada Ltd., CIBC World Markets Inc., Haywood Securities Inc., Scotia
Capital Inc., TD Securities Inc., Cormark Securities Inc., Dundee Securities
Ltd. and Paradigm Capital Inc. 
“2016 Underwriting Agreement” means the underwriting
agreement dated February 11, 2016 between the 2016 Underwriters and Osisko. 
“2016 Units” has the meaning ascribed under the heading
“General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - $173 Million Bought Deal
Public Offering”. 
“2016 Warrant Indenture” means the warrant indenture
dated February 26, 2016 between Osisko and CST Trust Company as warrant agent
pursuant to which the common share purchase warrants underlying the 2016 Units
were created and issued and by which they are governed. 
“2017 Credit Agreement” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Increase of
Credit Facility to $350 Million”. 
“2017 Underwriters” means National Bank Financial Inc.,
BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc. and Desjardins Securities Inc., Macquarie Capital Markets
Canada Ltd., RBC Dominion Securities Inc., CIBC World Markets Inc., Scotia
Capital Inc., TD Securities Inc., Canaccord Genuity Corp., Cormark Securities
Inc., Haywood Securities Inc., Paradigm Capital Inc. and Raymond James Ltd. 
“2017 Underwriting Agreement” means the underwriting
agreement dated October 20, 2017 between the 2017 Underwriters and Osisko. 
“affiliate” has the meaning ascribed in the
Securities Act (Québec), unless stated otherwise. 
“Ag” is the chemical symbol for silver. 
“Agnico” means Agnico Eagle Mines Limited. 
“Agnico-Yamana Arrangement” means the arrangement
transaction that closed on June 16, 2014 pursuant to which (a) Agnico and Yamana
jointly acquired all of the common shares of Osisko Mining Corporation (now
Canadian Malartic Corporation), (b) Osisko acquired the OMC Assets and (c) each
of the former holders of Osisko Mining Corporation received in exchange for each
OMC Share so held (i) $2.09 in cash; (ii) 0.07264 of an Agnico common share;
(iii) 0.26471 of a Yamana common share; and (iv) 0.1 of an Osisko Share on a
post-consolidation basis. 
“Amended Renard Streaming Agreement” has the meaning
ascribed under the heading “Description of Business - Cornerstone Assets -
Renard Stream (Stornoway Diamond Corporation)”. 
“Aquila” means Aquila Resources Inc. 
“Aquila Private Placement” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition
of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan,
USA”. 
“Arizona Mining” means Arizona Mining Inc. 
“associate” has the meaning ascribed in the
Securities Act (Québec), unless stated otherwise. 
“Au” is the chemical symbol for gold. 
7 

“Back Forty CoC Provision” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition
of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan,
USA”. 
“Back Forty Deposit” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition of a Gold
Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan, USA”. 
“Back Forty Fourth Deposit” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition
of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan,
USA”. 
“Back Forty Project” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition of a Gold
Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan, USA”. 
“Back Forty Tail Stream” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition of a
Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan, USA”.

“Back Forty Threshold Stream” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition
of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan,
USA”. 
“BAPE” means the Bureau des Audiences Publiques sur
l’Environnement. 
“Barkerville” means Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
“Barkerville Amended Agreement” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “Description of Business - Main Strategic Investments -
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.”. 
“Barkerville Royalty Option” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “Description of Business - Main Strategic Investments -
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.”. 
“Barkerville Royalty Transaction” has the meaning
ascribed under the heading “Description of Business - Main Strategic Investments
- Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.”. 
“Barrick” means Barrick Gold Corporation. 
“BHS” means blasthole shrinkage. 
“breccia” means a coarse-grained rock in which angular
fragments of one mineral (or composite of minerals or rock) are surrounded and
held together by a mass of fine-grained minerals and in this case originating
from explosive igneous processes. 
“Brucejack Stream” means OBL’s interest in the 4.0% gold
and silver stream on the Brucejack gold mine located in British Columbia,
Canada, which was fully repurchased by Pretium Exploration on December 19, 2018
for proceeds of US$118.5 million ($159.4 million). 
“Brucejack Stream Agreement” means the gold and silver
purchase and sale agreement dated September 15, 2015 among Orion Stream II and
BTO, as purchasers, Pretium Resources and Pretium Exploration, as sellers, Orion
Stream II, as purchaser’s agent and Orion Co-Investments II (ED) Limited, as
collateral agent. 
“Canadian Malartic Corporation” means Canadian Malartic
Corporation (formerly Osisko Mining Corporation). 
“Canadian Malartic Properties” means the properties that
are subject to the Canadian Malartic Royalty. 
8 

“Canadian Malartic Report” has the meaning ascribed
under “Schedule B - Technical Information Underlying the Canadian Malartic
Properties”. 
“Canadian Malartic Royalty” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “Material Mineral Projects - The Canadian Malartic Royalty”.

“Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement” means the amended
and restated net smelter return royalty agreement dated June 16, 2014 between
Osisko and Canadian Malartic GP. 
“carats” means a unit of weight in the gemstone trade
where 1 carat = 0.2 grams. 
“Cariboo Property” means the Cariboo gold project held
by Barkerville and located in British Columbia, Canada.
“Caterpillar” means Caterpillar Financial Services
Limited. 
“CBCA” means the Canada Business Corporations Act
and the regulations made thereunder. 
“CDPQ” means Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec.
“CEAA” means the Canadian Environmental Assessment
Agency. 
“Chantrell” means Chantrell Ventures Corp. 
“CIM” means the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy
and Petroleum. 
“CNM” means the Cree Nation of Mistissini. 
“country rock” means the rock that surrounds or is
entrained within an ore deposit but which generally has no commercial value,
also referred to as wall rock. 
“core” means a long cylindrical piece of rock, commonly
between 25 and 100 mm (1 to 4 inches) in diameter, brought to surface by diamond
drilling. 
“cpht” means carats per hundred tonnes. Weight of
diamonds in 100 tonnes of rock. 
“CRA” means the Canada Revenue Agency. 
“CRB” means country rock breccia. 
“Cree Parties” means the CNM, the Grand Council of the
Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Regional Authority. 
“cts” means carats. 
“Cu” is the chemical symbol for copper. 
“Dalradian” means Dalradian Resources Inc.
“Debentures” has the meaning ascribed under the heading
“General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Closing of a $300 million
financing of Debentures”. 
“Declaration of Partnership” means the Declaration of
Partnership executed by Stornoway in July 2012, with the communities of
Chibougamau and Chapais in the James Bay Region of Québec. 
“development” means the preparation of a mineral deposit
for commercial production including installations of plant and machinery and the
construction of all related facilities. 
9 

“diamond” means the hardest known mineral and composed
of pure carbon. Low quality diamonds are used to make bits for diamond drilling
in rock or other industrial applications. Higher quality diamonds are used in
the manufacture of jewellery and in scientific applications. 
“diamond drilling” (core drilling) means a hollow
drill bit impregnated with synthetic diamonds attached to the end of a series of
drill rods. The rods and bits are rotated rapidly and forced downward into the
rock. The result is a cylinder of rock (called core) that is recovered from
inside the drill rods. Diamonds drills are the most common type of exploration
drill used in Canada. 
“Diaquem” means Diaquem Inc. 
“diatreme” means breccia-filled volcanic pipe formed by
a gaseous explosion. 
“Dividend Reinvestment Plan” means Osisko’s dividend
reinvestment plan. 
“DMS” means dense medium separation. DMS is used to
establish whether kimberlitic rock samples contain a population of commercial
size diamonds. It is a process whereby a fluid media is used to ‘float’ off
undesirable minerals with a low specific gravity (density) and to ‘sink’ or
concentrate minerals with a higher specific gravity. The density of the fluid
media can be varied to change the density of the minerals that are
retained/discarded. 
“DTC” means Diamond Trading Company. 
“Earn-In Agreement” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “Description of Business – Exploration and Evaluation Activities”. 
“Earn-In Properties” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “Description of Business – Exploration and Evaluation Activities”. 
“Eagle Project” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “Description of Business - Main Strategic Investments - Victoria Gold
Corp”.
“Eagle Royalty Purchase” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition of a
gold royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”.

“EDGAR” means the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis
and Retrieval system. 
“Éléonore Mine” means Goldcorp’s gold mine located in
Eeyou Istchee/James Bay, in Northern Québec. 
“Éléonore Property” means the properties that are
subject to the Éléonore Royalty. 
“Éléonore Report” has the meaning ascribed under
“Schedule C - Technical Information Underlying the Éléonore Mine”. 
“Éléonore Royalty” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “Material Mineral Projects - The Éléonore Royalty”. 
“Éléonore Royalty Agreement” means the royalty agreement
dated March 31, 2006 and amended on May 12, 2014, between Goldcorp, VGM (now Les
Mines Opinaca Ltée, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Goldcorp) and Virginia. 
“ESIA” means the environmental and social Impact
assessment filed by the Stornoway on December 28, 2011 for the Renard Diamond
Mine. 
“exploration” means the prospecting, mapping, sampling,
remote sensing, geophysical surveying, diamond drilling and other work involved
in the searching for ore bodies. 
“Falco” means Falco Resources Ltd. 
10 

“Falco Debenture” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Silver Stream with
Falco Resources Ltd. in respect of the Horne 5 Project in Rouyn-Noranda,
Québec”. 
“Falco Loans” has the meaning ascribed under the heading
“General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Extension of Maturity Date of
Senior Note and Senior Loan with Falco Resources Ltd.”. 
“Falco Shares” means the common shares in the capital of
Falco. 
“Falco Senior Loan” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Extension of Maturity
Date of Senior Note and Senior Loan with Falco Resources Ltd.”.
 “Falco Silver Stream” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “Description of Business - Main Strategic Investments - Falco
Resources Ltd.”.
“Falco Senior Note” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Extension of Maturity
Date of Senior Note and Senior Loan with Falco Resources Ltd.”. 
“FCDC” means FCDC Sales and Marketing Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of SDCI. 
“Fonds FTQ” means Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs
du Québec (F.T.Q.). 
“forward-looking statements” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”.

“Foxtrot Property” means, collectively, the property
comprised of 650 claims (33,629.95 ha) in four blocks (one large contiguous
landholding of 630 claims plus three smaller blocks), mining lease BM 1021 and a
surface lease number 1303 10 000 (199.85 ha).
“GCC” means the Grand Council of the Cree of Québec.

“GDP” means gross domestic product. 
“geological model” means drill hole data combined with
surface and subsurface geological information to develop an accurate 3-D model
describing the shape, size and orientation of the mineralization or mineralized
body. 
“geophysical survey” means a scientific method that
measures the physical properties of rock formations. Common properties
investigated include magnetism, density and electrical conductivity. 
“GEOs” means gold equivalent ounces. 
“Goldcorp” means Goldcorp Inc. 
“grease table” means a method of diamond extraction
whereby a disaggregated rock sample is run down a gently sloping table covered
in a specialized grease. Because diamonds are hydrophobic (water repellent), any
diamonds present in the sample will adhere to the grease. 
“GRR” means gross revenue royalty. 
“Guide 7” means the SEC’s Industry Guide 7. 
“g/t” means gram per tonne. 
“ha” means hectare. 
“Highland” means Highland Copper Company Inc. 
“Horne 5 Project” means Falco’s development-stage
project located in Rouyn-Noranda, Québec. 
11 

“HPGR” means high-pressure grinding roll. 
“HK” means hypabyssal kimberlite. 
“hypabyssal” refers to an igneous intrusion, or the rock
of that intrusion, whose depth of emplacement is intermediate. When applied to
kimberlite, generally refers to dykes in the root zones of diatremes or to
sills, which were not exposed at surface during emplacement. 
“IFRS” means International Financial Reporting Standards
adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board, as updated and amended
from time to time. 
“indicator minerals” means a suite of distinctive
minerals, some of whom crystallised directly from a kimberlitic magma
(phenocrysts) and others that are mantle derived (xenocrysts), and which are
common constituents of kimberlites, lamproites and orangeites -the three primary
host rocks for diamonds. Examples of indicator minerals include picroilmenite,
titanium and magnesium rich chromite, chrome diopside, magnesium rich olivine,
pyrope garnet and eclogite garnet, also known as kimberlite indicator minerals
(KIMs) and diamond indicator minerals (DIMs). 
“IRR” means internal rate of return. 
“IT” means information technology. 
“James Bay Regional Government” means a joint Regional
Government composed of Crees and Jamésiens. 
“JBNQA” means the James Bay and Northern Québec
Agreement 1975. 
“k” means thousand. 
“Kan Earn-In Agreement” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “Description of Business – Exploration and Evaluation
Activities”. 
“kimberlite” means a volatile-rich, potassic ultrabasic
rocks with highly variable textures and mineralogic compositions that are one of
the primary hosts for diamond deposits. Kimberlite is a hybrid igneous rock
crystallised from a molten liquid (kimberlitic magma) originating from the
Earth’s upper mantle. 
“kg” means kilogram. 
“km” means kilometre. 
“km²” means square kilometre. 
“kV” means kilovolt. 
“l” means litre. 
“L” means Mine level (depth below surface in metres).

“LDR” means large diamond recovery. 
“LNG” means liquefied natural gas. 
“LOM” means life-of-mine. 
“m” means metre. 
“m²” means square metre. 
“m3” means cubic metre. 
12 

“Ma” means mega annum (million years). 
“Mantos” means Mantos Copper S.A. 
“Mantos Blancos Mine” means the Mantos Blancos copper
mine located in northern Chile operated by Mantos. 
“Mantos Blancos Report” has the meaning ascribed under
“Schedule E - Technical Information Underlying the Mantos Blancos Mine”. 
“Mantos Blancos Stream” means the 100% silver stream on
the Mantos Blancos Mine. 
“Mantos Silver Purchase Price” means the purchase price
for silver under the Mantos Stream Agreement. 
“Mantos Stream Agreement” means the silver purchase
agreement dated September 11, 2015, as amended on March 9, 2016 and July 31,
2017, between Mantos, as seller and TitheCo, as purchaser, governing the
purchase of silver produced at the Mantos Blancos Mine. 
“masl” means meters above sea level. 
“mCarats” means million carats. 
“Mecheshoo Agreement” means the impact and benefits
agreement dated March 27, 2012 between SDCI, the Cree Nation of Mistissini, The
Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Regional Authority. 
“MELCC” means the Ministère de l’Environnement
et de la Lutte contre les changements climatiques. 
“MERN” means the Ministère de l’Énergie et des
Ressources naturelles (Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources) (formerly
the MRNF). 
“mineralization” means rock containing an undetermined
amount of minerals or metals. 
“mm” means millimetre. 
“Mt” means million tonnes (metric tons). 
“MTQ” means the Ministère des Transports. 
“MW” means megawatts. 
“NCIB Program” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Normal Course Issuer
Bid Program”. 
“NG” means natural gas. 
“NI 43-101” means National Instrument 43-101 -
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (or Regulation 43-101
respecting Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects in the Province
of Québec). 
“NI 51-102” means National Instrument 51-102 -
Continuous Disclosure Obligations (or Regulation 51-102 respecting
Continuous Disclosure Obligations in the Province of Québec). 
“NI 52-110” means National Instrument 52-110 - Audit
Committees (or Regulation 52-110 respecting Audit Committees in the
Province of Québec). 
“NioGold” means NioGold Mining Corporation. 
“NioGold Arrangement” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - Osisko Mining Inc.
and NioGold Mining Corporation”. 
13 

“Noranda” means Noranda Inc. 
“North Arrow” means North Arrow Minerals Inc. 
“NPI” means net profit interest royalty. 
“NPV” means net present value. 
“NSR” means net smelter return. 
“NYSE” means the New York Stock Exchange. 
“OBL” means Osisko Bermuda Limited, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Osisko. 
“OMC Assets” means the assets contributed pursuant to
the OMC Contribution Agreement including the following: (a) $157,000,000 in
cash; (b) the Canadian Malartic Royalty; (c) the publicly traded equity
investments of OMC held at the effective time of the Agnico-Yamana Arrangement;
and (d) all right, title and interest to the name “Osisko Mining Corporation”.

“OMC Contribution Agreement” means the contribution
agreement dated June 16, 2014 between Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian
Malartic Corporation) and Osisko, pursuant to which Osisko Mining Corporation
transferred to Osisko all of its entire legal and beneficial right, title and
interest in and to the OMC Assets. 
“OMC Share” means the common shares in the capital of
Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation). 
“OP” means open pit. 
“Opinaca” means Les Mines Opinaca Ltée. 
“ore” means a natural aggregate of one or more minerals
which, at a specified time and place may be mined, processed and sold at a
profit, or from which some part may profitably be separated. 
“Orion Acquisition Agreement” means the acquisition
agreement dated June 4, 2017 among Osisko and the Orion Parties, including all
schedules attached thereto. 
“Orion Parties” means, collectively, Orion Mine Finance
(Master) Fund I LP, Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion Stream I,
Orion Stream II, Orion Co-Investments IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited and Lynx
Metals Limited.
“Orion Private Placement” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Orion
Transaction”.
“Orion Purchase Price” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Orion
Transaction”. 
“Orion Stream I” means Orion Co-Investments I (Stream)
LLC (now OBL). 
“Orion Stream II” means Orion Co-Investments II (Stream)
Limited (now OBL). 
“Orion Transaction” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko's Business - 2017 - Orion
Transaction”. 
“Osisko” or “Corporation” means Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd, a corporation existing under the QBCA, and all successors
thereto. 
“Osisko Board” means the board of directors of Osisko,
as the same is constituted from time to time. 
14 

“Osisko DSUs” means Osisko’s Deferred Share Units. 
“Osisko Exploration James Bay” means Osisko Exploration
James Bay Inc. 
“Osisko Mining” means Osisko Mining Inc. 
“Osisko Mining Offering” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - Osisko Mining
Inc. and NioGold Mining Corporation”. 
“Osisko Mining Shares” means the common shares in the
capital of Osisko Mining. 
“Osisko Mining SRs” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - Osisko Mining Inc.
and NioGold Mining Corporation”. 
“Osisko Mining Warrants” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - Osisko Mining
Inc. and NioGold Mining Corporation”. 
“Osisko Options” means the outstanding options to
purchase Osisko Shares granted under Osisko Stock Option Plan or otherwise
granted by Osisko.
“Osisko Preferred Shares” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “Description of Capital Structure - Osisko Preferred Shares”. 
“Osisko RSUs” means Osisko’s Restricted Share Units
granted under the Osisko RSU Plan. 
“Osisko RSU Plan” means Osisko’s Restricted Share Unit
Plan originally adopted by the Osisko Board on April 30, 2014, further ratified
by the Osisko Board on June 30, 2014, amended on February 18, 2015 and further
amended by the Osisko Board on February 16, 2018 and ratified by the Osisko
Shareholders on May 3, 2018. 
“Osisko Shareholders” means the holders of Osisko
Shares. 
“Osisko Shares” means common shares in the capital of
Osisko. 
“Osisko Stock Option Plan” means the stock option plan
of Osisko adopted by the Osisko Board on April 30, 2014, approved on May 30,
2014 by the former OMC Shareholders, further ratified by the Osisko Board on
June 30, 2014 and amended by the Osisko Board on May 22, 2015, and amended on
March 21, 2018 and ratified by the Osisko Shareholders on May 3, 2018. 
“OSP” means ore-waste sorting. 
“outcrop” means an exposure of rock or mineral deposit
that can be seen on surface, not covered by soil or water. 
“oz” means ounce. 
“Pb” is the chemical symbol for lead. 
“PEA” means preliminary economic assessment. 
“Per Carat Cash Price” means the amount obtained by
multiplying (a) US$50 (subject to an increase of 1% annually after three years
of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds) by (b) an
amount equal to 20% of the weight in carats in the Subject Diamond. 
“PFIC” has the meaning ascribed under the heading
“Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. 
“PK” means processed kimberlite. 
15 

“PKC” means processed kimberlite containment. 
“PMD” means potential mineral deposit. 
“Pretium” means, collectively, Pretium Exploration and
Pretium Resources. 
“Pretium Exploration” means Pretium Exploration Inc.

“Pretium Resources” means Pretium Resources Inc.
 “QA/QC” means quality assurance and quality
control. 
“QBCA” means the Business Corporations Act
(Québec) and the regulations made thereunder. 
“qualified person” has the meaning ascribed in NI
43-101. 
“RACS” means remote avalanche control system. 
“RC” means reverse circulation. 
“Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Update” means the report
titled “2015 Mineral Resource Update for the Renard Diamond Project, Québec,
Canada, National Instrument 43-101 Technical Report” dated January 11, 2016.

“Renard 2016 Technical Report” has the meaning ascribed
under “Schedule D - Technical Information Underlying the Renard Diamond Mine”.

“Renard Buyers” means one or more of Orion Steam I’s
designated affiliates and/or respective limited partners or investors.
“Renard Closure Plan” means the rehabilitation
plan for the Renard Diamond Mine. 
“Renard Commencement of Commercial Production” means the
first day of the month immediately following the month in which the Renard
project’s processing plant first processes ore at an average rate of 3,550.7
tons per day. 
“Renard Commencement of Commercial Production Date”
means October 1, 2017, extendible day for day for force majeure events up
to a maximum of 180 days. 
“Renard Diamond Mine” means Stornoway’s 100% owned
Renard diamond mine located in north-central Québec, which is held through its
wholly-owned subsidiary SDCI. 
“Renard Deposit” means US$250 million. 
“Renard Kimberlite Pipes” means the kimberlites known as
Renard 1, 2, 3, 4, 65, 7, 8, 9 and 10 located on the Foxtrot Property. 
“Renard Mine Road” means the 97 km long mining-grade
road on segments “C” and “D” of the Route 167 Extension. 
“Renard Stream” means a 9.6% diamond stream on the
Renard Diamond Mine. 
“Renard Stream Amendment” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “Description of Business - Cornerstone Assets - Renard Stream
(Stornoway Diamond Corporation)”. 
“Renard Streamers” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “Description of Business - Cornerstone Assets - Renard Stream (Stornoway
Diamond Corporation)”.
16 

“Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of
Diamonds” means the streaming agreement for the forward sale of diamonds
dated July 8, 2014 and amended on March 30, 2015 among FCDC, a wholly owned
subsidiary of SDCI, Orion Stream I and the Renard Buyers. 
“Replacement Osisko Options” means, collectively, the
options to purchase Osisko Shares that were granted by Osisko on the Virginia
Arrangement Effective Date in exchange for Virginia Options, where (a) each
Virginia Option outstanding immediately prior to the Virginia Arrangement
Effective Date was exchanged for an option (each a “Replacement Osisko
Option”) to acquire from Osisko the number of Osisko Shares equal to the
product of the number of Virginia Shares underlying such Virginia Option by
0.92, and (b) the exercise price per Osisko Share subject to a Replacement
Osisko Option was equal to the quotient obtained by dividing the exercise price
per Virginia Share underlying such Virginia Option by 0.92.
“Ressources Québec” means Ressources Québec inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Investissement Québec. 
“ROM” means run-of-mine. 
“Route 167 Extension” means the extension of Route 167
from Témiscamie to the Renard Diamond Mine mine site. 
“RQ Debenture” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - $50 Million Financing
with Ressources Québec inc.”. 
“RQ Subscription Agreement” means the subscription
agreement dated February 12, 2016 between Osisko and Ressources Québec providing
for the issuance of the RQ Debenture. 
“SDCI” means Stornoway Diamonds (Canada) Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Stornoway.
 “SEC” means the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission. 
“SEDAR” means the System for Electronic Document
Analysis and Retrieval. 
“SOX” means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
“SRC” means Saskatchewan Research Council Geoanalytical
Laboratories. 
“Stornoway” means Stornoway Diamond Corporation or, if
the context requires, its wholly owned subsidiary, SDCI.
“Subject Diamonds” means all diamonds derived from the
Renard Diamond Mine. 
“Subject Diamond Interest” has the meaning ascribed to
such term in “Material Mineral Projects - The Renard Stream”. 
“t” means tonne. 
“Taseko” means Taseko Mines Limited. 
“Taseko Warrants” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition of Silver
Stream on Taseko Mines Limited’s Gibraltar Copper Mine”. 
“Teck” means collectively Teck Resources Limited and its
subsidiary Teck Metals Ltd. 
“TitheCo” or “Orion TitheCo Limited” means Orion
TitheCo Limited (now OBL). 
“TFFE” means a target for further exploration as defined
in NI 43-101 (previously “potential mineral deposit”). 
17 

“tpd” means tonnes per day. 
“trenching” means digging or blasting down from surface
through dirt and into the underlying rock to expose mineralization that can then
be examined. 
“TSX” means Toronto Stock Exchange. 
“U.S. Exchange Act” means the U.S. Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended. 
“V” means volts. 
“VGM” means Virginia Gold Mines Inc. 
“Victoria” means Victoria Gold Corp.
“Victoria Financing” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition of a gold
royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”. 
“Victoria Private Placement” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition
of a gold royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”.
“Virginia” means Virginia Mines Inc. 
“Virginia Shares” means common shares in the capital of
Virginia. 
“Virginia Options” means the options to purchase
Virginia Shares granted under the Virginia stock option plan that were
outstanding on the Virginia Arrangement Effective Date. 
“Virginia Arrangement Effective Date” means February 17,
2015. 
“WWW” means WWW International Diamond Consultants Ltd.

“Yamana” means Yamana Gold Inc. 
“Zn” is the chemical symbol for zinc. 
18 

 
 NI 43-101 Definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Indicated Mineral Resource” 
 
 Refers to that part of a Mineral Resource for which
 quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics
 can be estimated with a level of confidence sufficient to allow the
 appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support
 mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The
 estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration and testing
 information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as
 outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely
 enough for geological and grade continuity to be reasonably assumed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Inferred Mineral Resource” 
 
 Refers to that part of a Mineral Resource for which
 quantity and grade or quality can be estimated on the basis of geological
 evidence and limited sampling and reasonably assumed, but not verified,
 geological and grade continuity. The estimate is based on limited
 information and sampling gathered through appropriate techniques from
 locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Measured Mineral Resource” 
 
 Refers to that part of a Mineral Resource for which
 quantity grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics
 are so well established that they can be estimated with confidence
 sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic
 parameters, to support production planning and evaluation of the economic
 viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable
 exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate
 techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and
 drill holes that are spaced closely enough to confirm both geological and
 grade continuity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Mineral Reserve” 
 
 Refers to the economically mineable part of a Measured or
 Indicated Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary
 feasibility study. The study must include adequate information on mining,
 processing, metallurgical, economic, and other relevant factors that
 demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be
 justified. A Mineral Reserve includes diluting materials and allowances
 for losses that might occur when the material is mined. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mineral Reserves are categorized as follows on the basis
 of the degree of confidence in the estimate of the quantity and grade of
 the deposit: probable Mineral Reserves and proven Mineral Reserves.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Mineral Resource” 
 
 Refers to a concentration or occurrence of natural,
 solid, inorganic or fossilized organic material in or on the Earth’s crust
 in such form and quantity and of such a grade or quality that it has
 reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The location, quantity,
 grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are
 known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and
 knowledge. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Modifying Factors” 
 
 Modifying Factors are considerations used to convert
 Mineral Resources to Mineral Reserves. These include, but are not
 restricted to, mining, processing, metallurgical, infrastructure,
 economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental
 factors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “NI 43-101” 
 
 National Instrument 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure
 for Mineral Projects. An instrument developed by the Canadian
 Securities Administrators (an umbrella group of Canada’s provincial and
 territorial securities regulators) that governs public disclosure by mining and mineral exploration
 issuers. The instrument establishes certain standards for all public
 disclosure of scientific and technical information concerning mineral
 projects. 
19 

 
 “pre-feasibility study” and “feasibility
 study” 
 
 Refers to a comprehensive study of the viability of a
 mineral project that has advanced to a stage where the mining method, in
 the case of underground mining, or the pit configuration, in the case of
 an open pit, has been established and an effective method of mineral
 processing has been determined, and includes a financial analysis based on
 reasonable assumptions of technical, engineering, legal, operating,
 economic, social, and environmental factors and the evaluation of other
 relevant factors which are sufficient for a qualified person, acting
 reasonably, to determine if all or part of the Mineral Resource may be
 classified as a Mineral Reserve. Feasibility studies have a greater degree
 of confidence associated with all aspects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “preliminary assessment” 
 
 The term “preliminary assessment” or “preliminary
 economic assessment”, commonly referred to as a scoping study, means a
 study that includes an economic analysis of the potential viability of
 Mineral Resources taken at an early stage of the project prior to the
 completion of a preliminary feasibility study. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Probable Mineral Reserve” 
 
 Refers to an economically mineable part of an Indicated,
 and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource. The confidence in
 the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Mineral Reserve is lower than
 that applying to a Proven Mineral Reserve. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Proven Mineral Reserve” 
 
 A Proven Mineral Reserve is the economically mineable
 part of a Measured Mineral Resource. A Proven Mineral Reserve implies a
 high degree of confidence in the Modifying Factors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “qualified person” 
 
 Means an individual who (a) is an engineer or
 geoscientist with at least five years experience in mineral exploration,
 mine development or operation or mineral project assessment, or any
 combination of these; (b) has experience relevant to the subject matter of
 the mineral project and the technical report; and (c) is a member in good
 standing of a professional association that, among other things, is
 self-regulatory, has been given authority by statute, admits members based
 on their qualifications and experience, requires compliance with
 professional standards of competence and ethics and has disciplinary
 powers to suspend or expel a member, as defined in NI 43-101. 
The terms “Mineral Resource”, “Measured Mineral Resource”,
“Modification Factors”, “Indicated Mineral Resource”, “Inferred Mineral
Resource”, “Probable Mineral Reserve” and “Proven Mineral Reserve” used are
Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-101 under the
guidelines set out in the CIM Standards. 
Conversion Factors 

 
 To Convert
 From 
 
 To 
 
 Multiply By 
 
 Feet 
 
 Metres 
 
 0.305 
 
 Metres 
 
 Feet 
 
 3.281 
 
 Acres 
 
 Hectares 
 
 0.405 
 
 Hectares 
 
 Acres 
 
 2.471 
 
 Grams 
 
 Ounces (Troy) 
 
 0.03215 
 
 Grams/Tonnes 
 
 Ounces (Troy)/Short Ton 
 
 0.02917 
 
 Tonnes (metric) 
 
 Pounds 
 
 2,205 
 
 Tonnes (metric) 
 
 Short Tons 
 
 1.1023 
20 

CORPORATE STRUCTURE 
Name, Address and Incorporation 
Osisko was incorporated on April 29, 2014 under the name
“Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd / Redevances Aurifères Osisko Ltée” pursuant to the
QBCA, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian
Malartic Corporation). On January 1, 2017, Osisko and its wholly-owned
subsidiary Osisko Exploration James Bay amalgamated under the name “Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd / Redevances Aurifères Osisko Ltée”. 
The Osisko Shares are listed on the TSX and on the NYSE under
the symbol “OR”. 
Warrants of Osisko are listed on the TSX under the symbols
OR.WT (exercise price: $36.50 / expiry date: March 5, 2022). 
The Debentures are listed on the TSX under the symbol “OR.DB”
(conversion price $22.89 per Osisko Share and conversion rate of 43.6872 Osisko
Shares per $1,000 principal amount of Debentures).
As of the date of this Annual Information Form, Osisko is a
reporting issuer in British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario,
Québec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland.
Osisko is also a reporting issuer in the United States. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montreal, Québec H3B 2S2. 
Intercorporate Relationships 
As of December 31, 2018, Osisko’s only material subsidiary is
OBL, acquired in connection with the Orion Transaction (see “General Development
of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Orion Transaction”). 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 Osisko and its subsidiaries have additional interests in
 other subsidiaries that do not meet the materiality thresholds for
 disclosure set out in Form 51-102F2 of the Canadian Securities
 Administrators.
21 

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 
Description of the Business 
Osisko is focused on acquiring and managing precious metal and
other high-quality royalties, streams and other interests in Canada and
worldwide.
Osisko’s cornerstone assets include: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic
 Properties;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 a sliding scale 2.0% - 3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore
 Property;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 a 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard Diamond Mine;
 and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 a 100% silver stream on the Mantos Blancos
 Mine.
Osisko also owns a portfolio of royalties, streams, offtakes,
options on royalty or stream financings and exclusive rights to participate in
future royalty or stream financings on various projects, mainly in Canada. In
addition, Osisko invests in equities of exploration, development and royalty
companies. 
Business Model and Strategy 
Osisko is a growth-oriented and Canadian-focused precious metal
royalty and streaming company that is focused on maximizing returns for its
shareholders by growing its asset base, both organically and through accretive
acquisitions of precious metal and other high-quality royalties, streams and
similar interests, and by returning capital to its shareholders through a
quarterly dividend payment and share repurchases. Osisko has a unique growth
strategy that consists not only of acquiring and structuring both producing and
late-stage development royalty and stream products, but also of investing in
longer term assets where Osisko feels it is uniquely positioned to create value
and realize returns through the development of these assets. Osisko has a
successful track-record of strong technical capabilities, which it puts to work
creating its own pipeline of organic growth opportunities that provide exposure
to the upside of commodity prices and to the optionality of mineral reserve and
resource growth.
Osisko’s main focus is on high quality, long-life precious
metals assets located in favourable jurisdictions and operated by established
mining companies, as these assets provide the best risk/return profile. Osisko
also evaluates and invests in opportunities in other commodities and
jurisdictions. Given that a core aspect of Osisko’s business is the ability to
compete for investment opportunities, Osisko plans to maintain a strong balance
sheet and ability to deploy capital. 
Highlights - 2018 

 
 Record GEOs earned of 80,5531 (37% increase compared to 2017);
 
 
 Record revenues from royalties and streams of $127.6 million (compared to
 $93.8 million in 2017, an increase of 36%);
___________________________

 
 1 
 
 GEOs are calculated on a quarterly basis and include
 royalties, streams and offtakes. Silver earned from royalty and stream
 agreements was converted to gold equivalent ounces by multiplying the
 silver ounces by the average silver price for the period and dividing by
 the average gold price for the period. Diamonds, other metals and cash
 royalties were converted into gold equivalent ounces by dividing the
 associated revenue by the average gold price for the period. Offtake
 agreements were converted using the financial settlement equivalent
 divided by the average gold price for the period. For average metal prices
 used, refer to the “Portfolio of Royalty, Stream and Other Interests”
 section in Osisko’s MD&A for the year ended December 31, 2018, which
 section is incorporated by reference herein.
22 

 
 Record cash flows provided by operating activities of $82.2 million
 (compared to $48.7 million in 2017, an increase of 69%); 
 
 Net loss attributable to Osisko Shareholders of $105.6 million, $0.67 per
 basic share (compared to $42.5 million, $0.33 per basic share in 2017),
 reflecting impairment charges of $166.3 million ($123.7 million, net of income
 taxes), including $148.5 million on the Éléonore Royalty (109.1 million, net
 of income taxes); 
 
 Adjusted earnings2 of $31.4 million, $0.20 per basic share
 (compared to $22.7 million, $0.18 per basic share in 2017); 
 
 Repaid $123.5 million on the 2017 Credit Agreement and extended its
 maturity date by one year to November 14, 2022; 
 
 Received payment from Pretium Exploration in regards to its election to
 exercise its option to fully repurchase OBL’s interest in the Brucejack Stream
 for US$118.5 million ($159.4 million); 
 
 Delivered shares of AuRico Metals Inc. to Centerra Gold Inc. for a $1.80
 cash consideration per share and for total proceeds of $25.5 million,
 generating a gain3 of $15.5 million, based on the cash cost of the
 shares; 
 
 Acquired from Victoria a 5% NSR royalty for $98 million on the Dublin Gulch
 property which hosts the Eagle Project located in Yukon, Canada and subscribed
 for common shares of Victoria for $50 million; 
 
 Completed the Renard Stream Amendment, investing an additional $21.6
 million and improving the cash margin on the Renard Stream; 
 
 Acquired an additional 1.75% NSR royalty on the Cariboo Property held by
 Barkerville for $20 million, thus increasing Osisko’s NSR royalty to a total
 of 4% (Osisko has the option to acquire an additional 1% NSR royalty for $13
 million); 
 
 Announced a binding term sheet to provide Falco with the Falco Silver
 Stream with reference to up to 100% of the future silver produced from the
 Horne 5 Project located in Rouyn-Noranda, Québec. As part of the Falco Silver
 stream, Osisko committed to make staged upfront cash deposits to Falco of up
 to $180 million; 
 
 Converted the gold offtake agreement on the Matilda property operated by
 Blackham Resources Limited into a 1.65% gold stream, effective April 1, 2018;
 
 
 Maintained ownership and financing rights in respect to the Curraghinalt
 gold project through the take-private acquisition of Dalradian by Orion Mine
 Finance; 
 
 Announced a share buyback program of up to $100 million;
___________________________

 
 2 
 
 “Adjusted earnings” and “Adjusted earnings per basic
 share” are non-IFRS financial performance measures which have no standard
 definition under IFRS. For information regarding the non-IFRS financial
 measures used by Osisko, refer to the “Non-IFRS Financial Performance
 Measures” section in Osisko’s MD&A for the year ended December 31,
 2018, which section is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 The cash cost of an investment is a non-IFRS measure
 representing the cash paid on the acquisition of an investment. The gain
 or the loss is calculated by subtracting the cash cost from the cash
 proceeds on the sale of an investment.
23 

 
 Acquired for cancellation 2,709,779 Osisko Shares for $32.9 million
 (average acquisition cost of $12.15 per share), including $9.8 million under
 the current share buyback program; and 
 
 Declared quarterly dividends totaling $0.20 per share for 2018.

Highlights - Subsequent to December 31, 2018 

 
 Repaid the remaining $30 million under the credit facility; 
 
 Acquired for cancellation 852,500 Osisko Shares for $10.2 million (average
 acquisition cost of $11.95 per share); and 
 
 Declared a quarterly dividend of $0.05 per Osisko Share payable on April
 15, 2019 to Osisko Shareholders of record as of the close of business on March
 29, 2019; and 
 
 Closed the Falco Silver Stream with reference to up to 100% of the future
 silver produced from the Horne 5 Project. 
Cornerstone Assets 
Canadian Malartic Royalty (Agnico Eagle Mines Limited and
Yamana Gold Inc.) 
One of Osisko’s cornerstone assets is a 5% NSR royalty on the
Canadian Malartic property which is located in Malartic, Québec, and operated by
Canadian Malartic GP, formed by Agnico and Yamana. Canadian Malartic is Canada’s
largest and the world’s 14th largest producing gold mine.
Osisko also holds a 3% NSR royalty on the Odyssey North zone
and a 5% NSR royalty on the Odyssey South zone, which are located adjacent to
the Canadian Malartic mine on Osisko’s royalty ground.
On February 14, 2019, Agnico reported that Canadian Malartic GP
is evaluating the potential for underground mining of the Odyssey deposit and
East Malartic deposit, which lie on the Canadian Malartic mine property, from
surface to a depth of 600 metres. These deposits could provide higher grade
tonnes that could potentially supplement open pit production at Canadian
Malartic. Agnico and Yamana reported that Odyssey contains inferred mineral
resources of 809,000 ounces of gold (11.5 million tonnes grading 2.19 g/t Au)
and East Malartic has indicated mineral resources of 361,000 ounces gold (5.3
million tonnes grading 2.13 g/t Au) and inferred mineral resources of 1.4
million ounces of gold (22 million tonnes grading 1.98 g/t Au). Drilling is
ongoing to extend and upgrade the mineral resources in these zones. The permit
and certificate of authorization was received in December 2018, which allows for
the development of an underground ramp at Odyssey. 
Update on operations 
In February 2019, Agnico released its increased guidance for
gold production at the Canadian Malartic mine to 660,000 ounces in 2019, and
690,000 to 710,000 in 2020 and 2021, as higher grades from the Barnat pit are
expected to increase production.
On February 14, 2019, Agnico reported that gold production in
the fourth quarter of 2018 increased to 169,464 ounces when compared to the
prior-year period due to higher grades. Gold production for the full year 2018
increased to 698,000 ounces when compared to the prior-year period due to record
annual mill throughput levels and higher grades. 
Work on the Barnat extension project is proceeding on budget
and on schedule. Work is primarily focused on the Highway 117 road deviation,
overburden stripping and tailings expansion. The highway deviation is expected
to be completed in late 2019. Production activities at Barnat are scheduled to
begin in late 2019, following completion of the highway deviation. 
24 

Exploration programs are ongoing to evaluate several deposits
to the east of the Canadian Malartic open pit, including the Odyssey, East
Malartic, Sladen and Sheehan zones. These opportunities have the potential to
provide new sources of ore for the Canadian Malartic mill. In the fourth quarter
of 2018, 14 drill holes (5,460 metres) were completed at the Odyssey Zone and an
additional 13 drill holes (17,416 metres) were completed at the East Malartic
area. Additional exploration will be carried out in 2019 to assess the potential
of these zones. 
Éléonore Royalty (Goldcorp Inc.) 
Through the acquisition of Virginia in 2015, Osisko owns a
sliding scale 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Property located in the
Province of Québec. Commercial production for the Éléonore Mine operated by
Goldcorp was declared on April 1, 2015. The current NSR royalty is at 2.2%.

Update on operations 
On February 13, 2019, Goldcorp released its results for the
fourth quarter and fiscal year 2018 and reported that gold production for the
three months ended December 31, 2018 was higher than the same period in the
prior year at 104,000 ounces, reflecting the completion of the ramp up and
contribution of higher grade ore during the fourth quarter of 2018 in line with
the planned mining sequence. The mine achieved sustainable mining rates of over
6,100 tonnes per day in November 2018 and 6,600 tonnes per day in December 2018,
in line with targeted annual gold production of 400,000 ounces. Gold production
for the year ended December 31, 2018 was higher than the prior year at 342,000
ounces due primarily to an expected increase in grade and mined tonnes as the
Éléonore Mine completed its ramp up to optimized production levels. 
Goldcorp also mentioned that the expected future cash flows of
the Éléonore Mine were negatively impacted due to a decrease in mineral reserves
and mineral resources that impacted the estimated recoverable value. Mineral
resources decreased by 2.23 million ounces due to a change in the geologic
modeling methodology, which reduced the expected life of mine future cash flows.
Additionally, the recoverable amount of the Éléonore Mine was negatively
impacted by a reduction in the estimated fair value of the Éléonore Mine’s
exploration potential. As a result, Goldcorp recognized an impairment expense of
US$1.6 billion (US$1.4 billion, net of income taxes) against the carrying value
of the Éléonore Mine at December 31, 2018. 
On October 24, 2018, Goldcorp had updated its mineral reserve
and resource estimates for the Éléonore Mine as at June 30, 2018. Proven and
probable gold mineral reserves as of June 30, 2018 totaled 3.3 million ounces
(17.8 million tonnes grading 5.69 g/t Au), compared to 3.8 million ounces (19.6
million tonnes grading 6.02 g/t Au) as of June 30, 2017. Production depletion
accounted for a decrease of 0.3 million ounces, while the balance of the
adjustments to the geologic models was part of a continued effort to ensure only
profitable ounces were included in the reserve model. Measured and indicated
gold mineral resources as of June 30, 2018 were estimated at 0.5 million ounces
(3.2 million tonnes grading 5.03 g/t Au) compared to 1.3 million ounces (7.2
million tonnes grading 5.81 g/t Au) as of June 30, 2017. Inferred gold mineral
resources as of June 30, 2018 were estimated at 0.59 million ounces (3.2 million
tonnes grading 5.76 g/t Au) compared to 1.99 million ounces (8.45 million tonnes
grading 7.31 g/t Au) as of June 30, 2017. Goldcorp stated that mineral resources
were negatively impacted by the geologic modelling methodology that has been
applied to the mineral reserves has been applied to mineral resources, in
addition to economic stope optimization. Exploration continued to delineate and
expand the Main Ore Shoot and South Ore Shoot depth extensions. Goldcorp further
stated that the Éléonore Mine’s mineralized horizon remains open down dip where
it has been drill tested 200 metres below the current mineral reserves to date
and exploration is ongoing to test for extensions and structural
repetitions.
For the year ended December 31, 2018, Osisko incurred an
impairment charge of $148.5 million ($109.1 million, net of income taxes) with
respect to the Éléonore Royalty. 
25 

Renard Stream (Stornoway Diamond Corporation)

The Renard Diamond Mine is operated by Stornoway and is
Québec’s first (1st) and Canada’s sixth (6th) producing
diamond mine. It is located approximately 250 kilometres north of the Cree
community of Mistissini and 350 kilometres north of Chibougamau in the James Bay
region of north-central Québec. Construction on the mine commenced on July 10,
2014, and commercial production was declared on January 1, 2017. 
On October 2, 2018, Osisko announced that it has entered into
an amended and restated purchase and sale agreement (the “Amended Renard
Streaming Agreement”) with Stornoway in relation to the Renard Stream (the
“Renard Stream Amendment”). As part of the Amended Renard Streaming
Agreement, Osisko, along with CDPQ, Triple Flag Mining Finance Bermuda Ltd.,
Albion Exploration Fund, LLC and Washington State Investment Board
(collectively, the “Renard Streamers”) paid Stornoway the U.S. dollar
equivalent of $45 million in cash ($21.6 million attributable to Osisko) as an
additional up-front deposit to Stornoway.
The terms of the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement provide
that the Renard Streamers shall continue to hold a 20% undivided interest (9.6%
stream attributable to Osisko) in all diamonds produced from the Renard Diamond
Mine for the life of mine (prior to the amendment, the stream was applicable to
all diamonds produced from the first 5 project kimberlites to be mined at the
Renard Diamond Mine for the life of mine, and the first 30 million carats from
the property overall). Upon the completion of a sale of diamonds, the Renard
Streamers will remit to Stornoway a cash transfer payment which shall be the
lesser of 40% of achieved sales price and US$40 per carat (prior to the
amendment, the cash transfer was a fixed amount of US$50 per carat escalating at
1% per annum). 
In addition, for the purpose of calculating stream remittances,
Stornoway shall separately sell any diamonds smaller than the +7 DTC sieve size
that are recovered in excess of the maximum agreed-upon proportion within a sale
of run of mine diamonds (the excess small diamonds, or incidentals). In this
manner, Stornoway shall restrict the proportion of small diamonds contained in a
run of mine sale such that the Renard Streamers and Stornoway will be fully
aligned on upside price exposure with downside protection on price and product
mix. 
The Renard Stream Amendment is part of a series of financing
transactions with Stornoway’s lenders and key stakeholders that provide
Stornoway with greater financial and operational flexibility representing up to
$129 million in additional liquidity in the near term as the mine ramps up its
operations. 
Update on operations 
On January 16, 2019, Stornoway reported fourth quarter mine
production 485,616 carats recovered from the processing of 605,960 tonnes of ore
at an attributable grade of 80 cpht. During the fourth quarter, mill feed was
derived from the Renard 2 underground mine (92%), the Renard 65 open pit (6%),
and Renard 3 underground development (1%). Processing rates in the quarter
averaged 6,600 tonnes per day, compared to an annual plan of 7,000 tonnes per
day. Processing rates were affected by the oversized material coming from the
underground mine, and are expected to increase to nameplate capacity with the
improvement of rockbreaking capacity on the primary crusher pad. 
Stornoway further reported that mine production for 2018
reached 1.32 million carats recovered from the processing of 2.33 million tonnes
of ore at an attributable grade of 57 cpht. Carats recovered and processed were
below the low end of the revised guidance, due to lower tonnages processed in
the second half of November and December resulting from technical issues with
the front-end of the process plant. Carat recoveries in 2018 were affected by
delays in the ramp up of the Renard 2 underground mine, the processing of low
grade stockpiles to curtail the shortfall in mined tonnes during the transition
from open pit to underground operations, and the mining of lower than expected
grades at the margin of the orebody during the initial phase of the underground
ramp up. By the end of the third quarter, the ramp up of underground production
at Renard 2 was completed, and a steady feed was achieved from underground
operations. Recovered grade improved by 39% and 45% in the third and fourth
quarters, respectively. Carat recoveries improved by 47% in both the
third and fourth quarters. Carat recoveries missed the bottom end of the
guidance range due to the process plant performing at lower than nameplate
capacity in the second half of November and in December, due to the
aforementioned factors. 
26 

During the fourth quarter of 2018, Stornoway reported sales of
253,929 carats of run of mine production sold at an average price of US$92 per
carat ($122 per carat) from two tender sales. Fourth quarter diamond sales
represent diamonds recovered between July 21 and October 5, 2018. For 2018, a
total of 1.04 million carats of run of mine production were sold at an average
price of US$105 per carat ($136 per carat).
In 2019, Stornoway expects to produce between 1.80 and 2.10
million carats from the processing of 2.40 to 2.55 million tonnes of ore. Ore
will be derived primarily from the 290 meter level of the Renard 2 underground
mine, with additional production from the Renard 65 open pit. Starting in the
second quarter, Renard 3 underground ore is expected to be available to
supplement Renard 2 production. 2019 production guidance reflects the
steady-state operations at the 290 meter level of Renard 2 underground mine and
improvement in grades demonstrated in the fourth quarter of 2018, with further
operational flexibility and grade increases expected once Renard 3 underground
ore becomes available. Between 1.80 and 2.10 million carats are expected to be
sold in 8 tender sales at prices between US$80 and US$105 per carat. 
Mantos Blancos Stream (Mantos Copper S.A.) 
Mantos is a private mining company focused on the extraction
and sale of copper. Mantos owns and operates the Mantos Blancos Mine and the
Mantoverde project, located in the Antofagasta and Atacama regions in northern
Chile.
Under the Mantos Stream Agreement, Osisko receives 100% of
the payable silver from the Mantos Blancos Mine until 19.3 million ounces have
been delivered, after which the stream percentage will be 30%. The purchase
price for the silver under the Mantos Stream Agreement is 25% of the monthly
average silver market price for each ounce of refined silver sold and delivered
and/or credited by Mantos to OBL. Mantos
may elect to reduce the amount of refined silver to be delivered and sold to OBL
by 50% in either 2019 or 2020, provided that Mantos has delivered no less than
1.99 million ounces of silver under the Mantos Stream Agreement in which case
Mantos shall make a cash payment of US$70 million to OBL.
As of December 31, 2018, a total of 1.76 million ounces of
silver have been delivered under the stream agreement. Osisko expects that
Mantos will reach the 1.99 million ounces of silver threshold by the end of the
second quarter of 2019, based on expected production. The buy-down payment of
US$70 million can be exercised in September 2019 or September 2020. 
27 

Summary of Principal Royalties, Streams, Offtakes and Other
Interests 
Osisko owns a portfolio of 135 royalties, streams and offtakes
assets, as well as 40 royalty options. The portfolio consists of 122 royalties,
8 streams and 5 offtakes. Currently, Osisko has 18 producing assets. 
Portfolio by Asset Stage 

 
 Asset Stage 
 Royalties 
 Streams 
 Offtakes 
 Total Number 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 of
 Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Producing 
 11 
 5 
 2 
 18 
 
 Development (construction) 
 8 
 3 
 2 
 13 
 
 Exploration and evaluation 
 103 
 - 
 1 
 104 
 
 
 122 
 8 
 5 
 135 
Producing Assets 

 
 Asset 
 Operator 
 Interest 
 Commodity 
 Jurisdiction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 North America 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Canadian Malartic 
 Agnico and Yamana 
 5% NSR royalty 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Éléonore 
 Goldcorp 
 2.0-3.5% NSR royalty 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 
 Stornoway 
 9.6% stream 
 Diamonds 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gibraltar 
 Taseko 
 75% stream 
 Ag 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seabee 
 SSR Mining Inc. 
 3% NSR royalty 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Island Gold 
 Alamos Gold Inc. 
 1.38-2.55% NSR royalty(1)
 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Brucejack 
 Pretium Resources 
 50% offtake 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vezza 
 Ressources Nottaway Inc. 
 5% NSR royalty & 40% NPI

 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bald Mtn. Alligator Ridge / Duke &
 Trapper 
 Kinross Gold Corporation 
 1% / 4% NSR royalty 
 Au 
 USA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pan 
 Fiore Gold Ltd. 
 4% NSR royalty 
 Au 
 USA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parral 
 GoGold Resources Inc. 
 100% offtake 
 Au, Ag 
 Mexico 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lamaque South 
 Eldorado Gold Corp. 
 1.7% NSR royalty(1), (7)
 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Holloway 
 Kirkland Lake Gold Ltd. 
 $8.50/ounce 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Outside of North America 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mantos Blancos 
 Mantos 
 100% stream 
 Ag 
 Chile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sasa 
 Central Asia Metals plc 
 100% stream 
 Ag 
 Macedonia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kwale 
 Base Resources Limited 
 1.5% GRR(2) 
 Rutile, Ilmenite, Zircon 
 Kenya 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Brauna 
 Lipari Mineração Ltda 
 1% GRR(2) 
 Diamonds 
 Brazil 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Matilda (3) 
 Blackham Resources Limited 
 1.65% stream 
 Au 
 Australia

Key development / exploration and evaluation assets 

 
 Asset 
 Operator 
 Interest 
 Commodities 
 Jurisdiction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amulsar 
 Lydian International Ltd. 
 4.22% Au / 62.5% Ag stream 
 Au, Ag 
 Armenia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amulsar 
 Lydian International Ltd. 
 81.9% offtake 
 Au 
 Armenia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Eagle 
 Victoria 
 5% NSR royalty 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Back Forty 
 Aquila 
 18.5% Au / 75% Ag stream 
 Au, Ag 
 USA 
28 

 
 Horne 5(4) 
 Falco 
 90%-100% stream
 
 Ag 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Malartic - Odyssey South 
 Agnico and Yamana
 
 5% NSR royalty

 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Malartic - Odyssey North 
 Agnico and Yamana
 
 3% NSR royalty

 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cariboo 
 Barkerville 
 4% NSR
 royalty(5), (6) 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Windfall Lake 
 Osisko Mining 
 1.5% NSR
 royalty(8) 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hermosa 
 South 32 Limited
 
 1% NSR royalty

 Zn, Pb, Ag 
 USA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spring Valley 
 Waterton Global
 Resource Management 
 0.5% NSR royalty
 
 Au 
 USA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upper Beaver 
 Agnico 
 2% NSR royalty

 Au, Cu 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copperwood 
 Highland 
 3% NSR
 royalty(9) 
 Ag, Cu 
 USA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Marban 
 Osisko Mining 
 0.425% NSR
 royalty 
 Au 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ollachea 
 Kuri Kullu /
 Minera IRL 
 1% NSR royalty

 Au 
 Peru 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Casino 
 Western Copper
 & Gold Corporation 
 2.75% NSR royalty
 
 Au, Ag, Cu 
 Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Altar 
 Sibanye-Stillwater 
 1% NSR royalty

 Cu, Au 
 Argentina
 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 After the sale of a 15% interest in the royalties
 acquired from Teck to CDPQ.
 
 
 (2) 
 
 Gross revenue royalty.
 
 
 (3) 
 
 In March 2018, Osisko and Blackham Resources Limited
 entered into an agreement to restructure the gold offtake (which was
 applicable on 55% of the gold production from the Matilda mine) into a
 1.65% gold stream, effective April 1, 2018.
 
 
 (4) 
 
 On February 27, 2019, Osisko entered into the Falco
 Silver Stream with reference to up to 100% of the future silver produced
 from the Horne 5 Project. For further details, see “Description of
 Business - Main Strategic Investments - Falco Resources Ltd.”.
 
 
 (5) 
 
 Osisko has the option to acquire an additional 1% NSR
 royalty on the Cariboo Property for additional cash consideration of $13
 million.
 
 
 (6) 
 
 Including the Bonanza Ledge mine that has produced gold
 in 2018.
 
 
 (7) 
 
 Eldorado Gold Corporation has an option to buy back 50%
 of the NSR royalty for $1.7 million within one year of the commencement of
 commercial production.
 
 
 (8) 
 
 In 2018, Osisko acquired a 1% NSR royalty on part of the
 Windfall Lake property located north of the majority of the mineral
 resource, hosting a small portion of the mineral resource, and a 2% NSR
 royalty on the northern part of the property.
 
 
 (9) 
 
 3% NSR royalty on the Copperwood project. Upon closing of
 the acquisition of the White Pine project, Highland will grant Osisko a
 1.5% NSR royalty on all metals produced from the White Pine project, and
 Osisko’s royalty on Copperwood will be reduced to
1.5%.
29 

Significant Producing Royalty and Stream Assets 

 
30

Portfolio of Investments 
Osisko’s assets include a portfolio of shares of publicly
traded companies. Osisko invests, and intends to continue to invest, from time
to time in companies where it holds royalties, streams or other interests and in
various companies within the mining industry for investment purposes and with
the objective of improving its ability to acquire interests in exploration
assets, future royalties or revenue streams. In addition to investment
objectives, in some cases, Osisko may decide to take a more active role,
including providing management personnel, technical and/or administrative
support, as well as nominating individuals to the investee’s board of
directors.
Main Strategic Investments 
The following table presents the main strategic investments of
Osisko in marketable securities as at December 31, 2018 (in thousands of
dollars): 

 
 
 
 Number of 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash 
 
 
 Fair 
 
 
 Company 
 
 Shares 
 
 
 Ownership(i) 
 
 
 Cost(iii) 
 
 
 Value(i),(ii) 
 
 
 
 
 Held(i) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % 
 
 
 $
 
 
 $
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko Mining 
 
 42,890,269 
 
 
 16.7 
 
 
 91,383 
 
 
 131,673 
 
 
 Barkerville 
 
 162,864,251 
 
 
 32.2 
 
 
 78,274 
 
 
 65,146 
 
 
 Victoria 
 
 120,427,087 
 
 
 15.4 
 
 
 65,939 
 
 
 44,558 
 
 
 Falco 
 
 36,031,449 
 
 
 17.8 
 
 
 22,432 
 
 
 10,449 
 

 
 
 (i) 
 
 As at December 31, 2018.
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 The fair value corresponds to the quoted price of the
 investments in a recognized stock exchange as at December 31, 2018. For
 private investments, an internal or external evaluation is used to
 determine the fair value.
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 The cash cost of an investment is a non-IFRS measure
 representing the cash paid on the acquisition of an
 investment.
Osisko Mining Inc.
Osisko Mining is a Canadian focused gold exploration and
development company. In 2016 and 2017, Osisko entered into earn-in agreements
with Osisko Mining on properties held by Osisko in the James Bay area. Osisko
invested $40.1 million in Osisko Mining in 2017 and $18 million in 2018.
Osisko holds a 1.5% NSR royalty on the Windfall Lake gold
project and 1% NSR royalty on other properties held by Osisko Mining. As part of
a previous investment agreement with Osisko Mining, Osisko obtained the right to
purchase Osisko Mining’s buy-back rights on existing royalties on the Windfall
Lake property for $5 million (of which $2 million were paid in 2018), thus
allowing it to increase its royalty by an additional 1-2% NSR royalty for a
total potential NSR royalty of 2.5 -3.5%. 
In May 2018, Osisko Mining released a first mineral resources
estimate on Windfall Lake gold deposit. Osisko Mining indicated that mineral
resources were estimated at 601,000 ounces of gold in the measured and indicated
category (2,382,000 tonnes grading 7.85 g/t Au) and 2,284,000 ounces of gold in
the inferred category (10,605,000 tonnes grading 6.70 g/t Au). In addition, a
positive PEA on the Windfall Lake project was released in July 2018 with an
after-tax internal rate of return of 33%. Osisko Mining is also pursuing an
800,000 meter drilling program on the Windfall Lake property as well as a
metallurgical program. In October 2018, through the construction of an
exploration ramp, Osisko Mining achieved access to Zone 27, wireframe 115, which
was selected for the initial 5,000 tonne bulk sample to be processed in the
fourth quarter of 2018. In November 2018, Osisko Mining released a mineral
resource update including the mineral resource update for the Lynx zone.
Estimated measured and indicated resources were increased to 754,000 ounces of
gold (2,874,000 tonnes grading 8.17 g/t Au) and inferred mineral resources were
increased to 2,366,000 ounces of gold (10,352,000 tonnes grading 7.11 g/t Au).
In December 2018, Osisko Mining released preliminary results from the first
2,078 tonnes mined. The average head grade obtained is 9.7 g/t Au and 5.5 g/t
Ag, which is 39% higher than indicated in the resource block model for this
area. 
31 

During the fourth quarter of 2018, Osisko Mining closed the
acquisition of Beaufield Resources Inc. and a $76.4 million private placement
(Osisko subscribed for $18 million). Kirkland Lake Gold Ltd. acquired 32,627,632
common shares of Osisko Mining in the public market. On October 30, 2018, Osisko
Mining announced a private placement with CDPQ where CDPQ acquired 9,259,260
common shares of Osisko Mining at a price of $2.70 per common share for a total
investment of approximately $25 million. 
On February 20, 2019, Osisko Mining and Chantrell announced
that they have entered into a binding letter agreement outlining the proposed
terms and conditions upon which Osisko Mining will effect a business combination
that will result in a reverse takeover of Chantrell by Osisko Mining. Pursuant
to the proposed transaction, Osisko Mining will transfer certain non-core assets
of Osisko Mining with a value of approximately $99.9 million to Chantrell in
exchange for shares of Chantrell. In addition, the shares of Chantrell will be
subject to a consolidation on a 40:1 basis, subject to adjustment. 
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Barkerville is focused on the development of its extensive land
package located in the historical Cariboo Mining District of central British
Columbia, Canada, where it has completed a 157,000 meter drilling program.
On September 6, 2018, Osisko announced that it had entered into
a second amended and restated royalty purchase agreement with Barkerville (the
“Barkerville Amended Agreement”) pursuant to which Osisko acquired an
additional 1.75% NSR royalty for the aggregate purchase price of $20 million on
the Cariboo Property (the “Barkerville Royalty Transaction”). 
Under the terms of the Barkerville Amended Agreement, Osisko
has the option to acquire an additional 1% NSR royalty on the Cariboo Property
for additional cash consideration of $13 million (the “Barkerville Royalty
Option”). Osisko also holds a right of first refusal relating to any gold
stream offer received by Barkerville with respect to the Cariboo Property. 
The Barkerville Royalty Transaction increased Osisko’s existing
royalty on the Cariboo Property to a total of 4% NSR royalty, and a total of 5%
NSR royalty if the Barkerville Royalty Option is exercised.
As part of the Barkerville Royalty Transaction, Barkerville has
granted to Osisko 10,000,000 common share purchase warrants, each being
exchangeable for one (1) common share of Barkerville at an exercise price of
$0.75 per share for a period of 36 months. 
On May 2, 2018, Barkerville announced the maiden mineral
resource estimate for Cow and Island Mountain deposits at its 100% owned Cariboo
Property. The underground mineral resource estimate incorporates the Cow
Mountain and Valley Zones on Cow Mountain and Shaft Zone and Mosquito Creek on
Island Mountain at a cut-off grade of 3.0 g/t Au. A mineral resource on Bonanza
Ledge and BC Vein is also included. The resource is defined over 6 kilometers of
Barkerville’s 67-kilometer-long land package. Infill and exploration drilling is
ongoing and resource updates will be presented annually. Barkerville indicated
that mineral resources at the Cariboo Property was estimated at 1.60 million
ounces of gold in the measured and indicated category (8.1 million tonnes
grading 6.1 g/t Au) and 2.16 million ounces of gold in the inferred category
(12.7 million tonnes grading 5.2 g/t Au). 
In September 2018, Barkerville announced positive results from
its initial test mining of 80,000 tonnes at Bonanza Ledge. Barkerville’s Bonanza
Ledge mine has allowed Barkerville to assess mining methods, understand what
ground conditions to expect in different lithological units, train a local
workforce, and generate cash flows to offset some exploration expenditures. Test
mining at Bonanza Ledge was completed in December 2018 on Barkerville Mountain.
A total of 1,400 meters of development took place at the Bonanza Ledge and BC
Vein test mine. Approximately 122,000 tonnes were extracted and processed at a
grade of 5.98 g/t Au and 21,125 ounces of gold were poured in 2018. Barkerville
has also applied for permit amendment to extend the test mining for BC vein ore
bodies on Barkerville Mountain.
32 

The 2019 exploration program will include a total of 50,000
meters planned for the initial phase and an additional 40,000 meters will be
proposed following results of Phase 1. 
Victoria Gold Corp. 
On April 13, 2018, Osisko completed a $148 million financing
transaction with Victoria, pursuant to which Osisko acquired from Victoria a 5%
NSR royalty for $98 million on the Dublin Gulch property located in Yukon and
which hosts the Eagle gold project (the “Eagle Project”) and acquired
common shares of Victoria for $50 million. The 5% NSR royalty applies to all
metals and minerals produced from the Dublin Gulch property until an aggregate
of 97,500 ounces of refined gold has been delivered to Osisko and a 3% NSR
royalty thereafter. The first tranche of the $98 million purchase price,
representing $49 million, was paid on the closing of the transaction, and the
second tranche of $49 million will be funded pro rata to drawdowns under the
subordinated debt facilities provided by Orion Mine Finance Group (or a third
party). In September and December 2018, two payments of $14.7 million were made
to Victoria as part of the second tranche of the royalty purchase price, for a
remaining commitment of $19.6 million as at December 31, 2018. 
This financing was part of a comprehensive $500 million
construction financing package with Orion Mine Finance, Osisko and Caterpillar
Financial Services Limited that will fund the development of the Eagle Project
through to commercial production. The financing was comprised of two credit
facilities totalling US$175 million, an equipment financing facility for up to
US$50 million, the $98 million NSR royalty acquired by Osisko and a private
placement of Victoria common shares of $125 million, including $50 million from
Osisko. 
The Dublin Gulch property is located approximately 85
kilometres by road north northeast of the village of Mayo, in central Yukon,
Canada. The property hosts the Eagle gold deposit, the Wolf tungsten deposit and
a 13 kilometres-long belt of gold and silver mineralization known as the Potato
Hills Trend. The Eagle Project is the most advanced project in the region and is
on track to be the largest gold mine in Yukon history. The proposed Eagle gold
mine will produce doré from a conventional open pit operation with a three-stage
crushing plant, in-valley heap leach and carbon-in-leach adsorption-desorption
gold recovery plant. Victoria currently has year-round road access to the site,
and a fully operational 250-person all-season camp on site. Commercial grid
power is available approximately 45 kilometres by road from the site, and an
airstrip suitable for commercial planes is located 80 kilometres to the south.
The project will employ 350 to 400 people and will be a significant economic
contributor to Yukon. The Eagle Project has received all major permits for
construction and operations, completed the environmental assessment process and
has a signed comprehensive cooperation and benefits agreement with the local
Nacho Nyak Dun First Nation, whose traditional territory the project is located
within. 
In December 2018, Victoria announced that mine construction was
60% complete and remained on track for delivery of first gold in the second
semester of 2019.
Falco Resources Ltd. 
Falco’s main asset is the Horne 5 Project, for which a positive
feasibility study was released in October 2017.
On February 27, 2019, Osisko entered into a senior secured
silver stream facility with Falco to provide Falco pursuant to which Osisko has
agreed to commit up to $180 million through a silver stream toward the funding
of the development of the Horne 5 Project.
Osisko has agreed to commit up to $180 million payable as
follows: 

 $25 million on closing, net of any amounts owing by Falco to Osisko,
 including the repayment of the principal amounts due to Osisko under the Falco
 Loans (for further details on the Falco Loans, see “General Development of
 Osisko’s Business - 2016 - $10 Million Senior Note with Falco Resources Ltd.”, “General Development of
 Osisko’s Business - 2018 - $10 Million Senior Secured Loan Agreement with
 Falco Resources Ltd.” and “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 -
 Extension of Maturity Date of Senior Note and Senior Loan with Falco Resources
 Ltd.”);

 
33 

 $20 million upon Falco receiving all necessary material third-party
 approvals, licenses, right of ways, and surface rights; 
 
 $35 million following receipt of all material permits required for the
 construction of a mine on the Horne 5 Project, a positive construction
 decision for the Horne 5 Project, and raising a minimum of $100 million in
 equity, joint venture or any other non-debt financing for the construction of
 the mine; 
 
 $60 million upon the total projected capital expenditure for the Horne 5
 Project has been demonstrated to be financed; and 
 
 An optional payment of $40 million at the sole discretion of Osisko to
 increase stream percentage to 100%; 
 (the “Falco Silver
Stream”). 
Under the terms of a stream agreement dated February 27, 2019
between Falco and Osisko, Osisko will purchase up to 100% of the refined silver from
the Horne 5 Project. In exchange for the refined silver delivered under the
stream agreement, Osisko will pay Falco ongoing payments equal to 20% of the
spot price of silver on the day of delivery, subject to a maximum payment of
US$6 per silver ounce. 
The Falco Silver Stream is secured by the assets of Falco. 
Sustainability Activities 
Osisko views sustainability as a key part of its strategy to
create value for its shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Osisko focuses on the following key areas: 

 Promoting the mining industry and its benefits to society;
 Maintaining strong relationships with the federal government and the
 provincial, municipal and first nations governments in Québec;
 Supporting the economic development of regions where Osisko operates
 (directly or indirectly through its interests);
 Supporting university education in mining fields and employee development;

 Promoting diversity throughout the organization and the mining industry;
 and
 Encouraging investee companies to adhere to the same areas of focus in
 sustainability. 
As part of its investment analysis process, Osisko evaluates
the risk and performance of the investee companies in the sustainability areas
on projects where Osisko has a direct or indirect interest. 
Exploration and Evaluation Activities 
On October 4, 2016, Osisko entered into an earn-in transaction
with Osisko Mining. Under the terms of the earn-in agreement (the “Earn-In
Agreement”), Osisko granted to Osisko Mining with the right to earn a 100%
interest in 28 exploration properties held by Osisko located in the James Bay
area, Québec and the Labrador Trough area (excluding the Coulon copper-zinc
project and four other exploration properties) (the “Earn-In Properties”)
upon incurring exploration expenditures totaling $32 million over a seven-year
term. Under the Earn-In Agreement, Osisko Mining may earn a 50% interest upon
completing expenditures totaling $19.2 million on or before October 4, 2020.
Osisko will retain an escalating NSR royalty ranging from 1.5% to a maximum of 3.5% on precious
metals and a 2% NSR royalty on other metals and minerals produced from the
Earn-In Properties. Additionally, any new properties acquired by Osisko Mining
in a designated area during the seven-year term of the Earn-In Agreement may
also be subject to a royalty agreement in favour of Osisko with similar terms
and subject to certain conditions.
34 

On February 16, 2017, Osisko Mining and Osisko amended and
restated the Osisko Mining Earn-In Agreement, pursuant to which the Kan project
was carvedout into a separate earn-in agreement (the “Kan Earn-In
Agreement”). Under the terms of the Kan Earn-In Agreement, Osisko Mining
shall incur $6 million over the seven-year term of the Kan Earn-In Agreement,
and Osisko Mining will earn a 50% interest upon completing expenditures of $3.6
million over a four-year term. The entire commitment on the remainder of the
Earn-In Properties has been reduced by the same amount and terms as the Kan
Earn-In Agreement.
On December 15, 2017, Osisko Mining and Osisko entered into an
amendment to the Osisko Mining Earn-In Agreement to extend until December 31,
2018 Osisko Mining’s firm commitment to spend $4.1 million of exploration
expenditures on all the properties. As of December 31, 2018, all required
amounts have been spent. 
On August 27, 2018, Osisko Mining and Osisko amended and
restated the Earn-In Agreement, pursuant to which the FCI project was carvedout
into a separate earn-in agreement, and Osisko Mining entered into an earn-in
agreement with 92 Resources Inc. on the FCI project.
As a result of the earn-in agreements with Osisko Mining,
Osisko’s exploration and evaluation activities have been significantly
reduced.
Human Resources 
As of December 31, 2018, Osisko had 40 employees, the services
of 14 of which are being mainly charged back to investee companies. 
Although Osisko has less than five (5) years of operations, it
benefits from the continued availability and commitment of its key management,
whose contributions to its immediate and future operations are of significant
importance. Furthermore, Osisko implemented a succession plan in order to
mitigate the risk of being dependent on such key management. From time to time,
Osisko may also need to identify and retain additional skilled management and
specialized technical personnel to efficiently operate its business. 
Material Mineral Projects 
Osisko considers that the Canadian Malartic Royalty, the
Éléonore Royalty, the Renard Stream and the Mantos Blancos Stream are currently
its only material mineral projects for the purposes of NI 43-101.
Outlook 
Osisko’s 2019 outlook on royalty, stream and offtake interests
is based on publicly available forecasts, in particular the forecasts for the
Canadian Malartic mine published by Yamana and Agnico, for the Éléonore Mine
published by Goldcorp, for the Renard Diamond Mine published by Stornoway, and
for the Island Gold mine published by Alamos Gold Inc. When publicly available
forecasts on properties are not available, Osisko obtains internal forecasts
from the producers, which is the case for the Sasa mine and the Mantos Blancos
Mine, or uses management’s best estimate. Attributable GEOs for 2019, estimated
between 85,000 and 95,000, and cash margin by interest are as follows: 

 
 
 
 Low 
 
 
 High 
 
 
 Cash Margin 
 
 
 
 
 (GEOs) 
 
 
 (GEOs) 
 
 
 (%) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalty interests 
 
 54,700 
 
 
 61,100 
 
 
 99.9 
 
 
 Stream interests 
 
 28,000 
 
 
 31,300 
 
 
 65.5 
 
 
 Offtake interests 
 
 2,300 
 
 
 2,600 
 
 
 1.2 
 
 
 
 
 85,000 
 
 
 95,000 
 
 
 
 
For the 2019 guidance, silver, diamonds and cash royalties have
been converted to GEOs using commodity prices of US$1,300 per ounce of gold,
US$15.50 per ounce of silver and US$95 per carat for diamonds from the Renard
Diamond Mine (blended sales price) and an exchange rate (US$/C$) of 1.30. 
35 

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF OSISKO’S BUSINESS 
2019 
Closing of Silver Stream Transaction with Falco Resources
Ltd. 
On February 27, 2019, Falco announced the closing of the Falco
Silver Stream. For further details on the Falco Silver Stream, see “Description
of Business - Main Strategic Investments - Falco Resources Ltd.”. 
Falco and Osisko have also reached an agreement to settle
interest owed under the Falco Loans through the issuance of Falco Shares. The
principal amount of each of the Falco Loans were reimbursed with the first
instalment under the Stream Agreement. The interest owed under the Falco Loans
was paid on March 13, 2019 through the issuance of 5,353,791 Falco Shares at a
deemed price of $0.34 per share. For further details on the Falco Loans, see
“General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - $10 Million Senior Note with
Falco Resources Ltd.”, “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - $10
Million Senior Secured Loan Agreement with Falco Resources Ltd.” and “General
Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Extension of Maturity Date of Senior
Note and Senior Loan with Falco Resources Ltd.”. 
Initial $9.8 Million Investment towards $100 Million
Share Buy-Back Program and Reduction of Debt by US$ 43 Million 
On January 7, 2019, Osisko reported that it had completed an
initial investment of $9.8 million towards its NCIB Program for a total 849,480
Osisko Shares purchased for cancellation at an average price of $11.56 per share
during the month of December 2018 and that it has repaid US$43 million on its
revolving credit facility. The share repurchases were completed as an initial
investment towards Osisko’s previously announced intention to deploy up to $100
million towards purchases under its NCIB Program.
2018 
Extension of Maturity Date of Senior Note and Senior Loan
with Falco Resources Ltd. 
On December 20, 2018, Falco and Osisko agreed to amend (a) the
$10 million senior note entered into by Falco on May 30, 2016, as amended on
November 29, 2017, February 14, 2018 and May 31, 2018 (the “Falco Senior
Note”) and (b) the $10 million secured senior loan entered into by Falco on
September 10, 2018 (the “Falco Senior Loan” and, collectively with the
Falco Senior Note, the “Falco Loans”), by extending their respective
maturity to February 28, 2019. For further details on the Falco Loans, see
“General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - $10 Million Senior Note with
Falco Resources Ltd.” and “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - $10
Million Senior Secured Loan Agreement with Falco Resources Ltd.”. 
The principal amount of the Falco Loans was reimbursed through
the deposit made by Osisko on closing of the Falco Silver Stream. For further
details on the Falco Silver Stream, see “Description of Business - Main
Strategic Investments - Falco Resources Ltd.”. 
Receipt of Proceeds of $159.4 Million from Pretium
Exploration Inc.
On September 24, 2018, Osisko announced that OBL has received a
notice from Pretium Exploration, a subsidiary of Pretium Resources, in regards
to its election to exercise its option to fully repurchase OBL’s interest in the
Brucejack Stream, as provided for in the Brucejack Stream Agreement. Under the
Brucejack Stream Agreement, Pretium had an option to repurchase 100% of OBL’s
share of the Brucejack Stream by making a payment of US$118.5 million
(approximately $154 million) to OBL on December 31, 2018. 
36 

On December 19, 2018, Osisko announced that OBL has received
proceeds of US$118.5 million ($159.4 million) from Pretium Exploration, a
subsidiary of Pretium Resources, in regards to Pretium’s exercise of its option
to fully repurchase OBL’s interest in the Brucejack Stream, as provided for in
the Brucejack Stream Agreement.
Normal Course Issuer Bid Program 
On December 10, 2018, following TSX approval, Osisko announced
the renewal of a normal course issuer bid to purchase for cancellation, from
time to time, up to 10% of the public float of Osisko over a 12-month period
(the “NCIB Program”). 
Repurchases under the NCIB Program commenced on December 12,
2018 and will terminate on December 11, 2019, or on such earlier date as the
NCIB Program is complete. Purchases of Osisko Shares under the NCIB Program will
be made in Canada through the facilities of the TSX in accordance with its
rules. Daily purchases will be limited to 71,940 Osisko Shares, other than block
purchase exemptions, representing 25% of the average daily trading volume of the
Osisko Shares on the TSX for the six-month period ended November 30, 2018, being
287,760 Osisko Shares. The price that Osisko may pay for Osisko Shares purchased
under the NCIB Program will be the prevailing market price at the time of
purchase and any Osisko Shares purchased by Osisko will be cancelled. 
As of the date hereof, Osisko has purchased and cancelled
1,701,980 Osisko Shares under the NCIB Program. 
Under the prior NCIB program which ended on December 10, 2018,
Osisko purchased 1,860,299 Osisko Shares at a weighted average price of $12.4156
per Osisko Share through the facilities of the TSX. 
Agreement to Amend Renard Stream 
On October 2, 2018, Osisko announced that it has entered into
the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement with Stornoway in relation to the Renard
Stream Amendment. As part of the Renard Stream Amendment, Osisko provided
Stornoway with the US$ equivalent of $21.6 million, representing Osisko’s share
of an additional up-front deposit provided to Stornoway. Certain other
amendments were also made to the existing stream structure as part of the
Amended Renard Streaming Agreement. 
The Renard Stream Amendment was part of a series of financing
transactions with Stornoway’s lenders and key stakeholders that provide
Stornoway with greater financial and operational flexibility representing up to
$129 million in additional liquidity in the near term as the mine ramps up its
operations. 
Osisko has funded its share of the Renard Stream Amendment
through cash on hand, representing an outlay of $21.6 million during the fourth
quarter of 2018. 
The terms of the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement provide
that the Renard Streamers shall continue to hold a 20% undivided interest (9.6%
stream attributable to Osisko) in all diamonds produced from the Renard mining
property for the life of the mine, however upon the completion of a sale of
diamonds, the Renard Streamers will remit to Stornoway a cash transfer payment
which shall be the lesser of 40% of achieved sales price and US$40 per carat.

Previously, the Renard Stream represented an undivided interest
in 20% of all diamonds produced from the first 5 project kimberlites to be mined
at Renard for the life of mine, and the first 30 million carats from the
property overall, with the Renard Streamers remitting to Stornoway a cash
transfer payment of US$50 per carat escalating at 1% per annum. 
In addition, for the purpose of calculating stream remittances,
Stornoway shall separately sell any diamonds smaller than the +7 DTC sieve size
that are recovered in excess of the maximum agreed-upon proportion within a sale
of run of mine diamonds (the excess small diamonds or “Incidentals”). In this
manner, Stornoway shall restrict the proportion of small
diamonds contained in a run of mine sale such that the Renard Streamers and
Stornoway will be fully aligned on upside price exposure with downside
protection on price and product mix. 
37 

Pursuant to the Amended Renard Stream Amendment, Stornoway has
granted to the Renard Streamers the right to nominate one (1) member on the
Stornoway board of directors as long as their collective shareholding in
Stornoway remains above 5%. 
$10 Million Senior Secured Loan Agreement with Falco
Resources Ltd. 
On September 11, 2018, Osisko announced that it has entered
into an agreement to provide Falco with the Falco Senior Loan under which Osisko
has provided Falco with a $10 million loan, with interest on the principal
amount at a rate per annum that is equal to 7%, compounded quarterly.
The principal amount under the Falco Senior Loan was reimbursed
through the deposit made by Osisko on closing of the Falco Silver Stream (See
“General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2019 - Closing of Silver
Stream Transaction with Falco Resources Ltd.”). The interest owed under the Falco Senior Loan was paid on March
13, 2019 through the issuance of Falco Shares at a deemed price of $0.34 per
share. 
Dalradian Resources Inc. 
On September 7, 2018, Orion Mine Finance announced the
completion of the acquisition and privatization of Dalradian for cash
consideration of $1.47 per common share. The common shares of Dalradian held by
Osisko were not acquired in the transaction.
Acquisition of Additional Gold Royalty on Barkerville
Gold Mines Ltd.’s Cariboo Property 
On September 6, 2018, Osisko announced that it has entered into
the Barkerville Royalty Transaction. Under the terms of the Barkerville Amended
Agreement, Osisko benefits from the Barkerville Royalty Option. Osisko also
holds a right of first refusal relating to any gold stream offer received by
Barkerville with respect to the Cariboo Property. 
The Barkerville Royalty Transaction increased Osisko’s existing
royalty on the Cariboo Property to a total of 4% NSR royalty, and a total of 5%
NSR royalty if the Barkerville Royalty Option is exercised.
As part of the Barkerville Royalty Transaction, Barkerville has
granted to Osisko 10,000,000 common share purchase warrants, each being
exchangeable for one (1) common share of Barkerville at an exercise price of
$0.75 per share for a period of 36 months. 
For further details on the Barkerville Royalty Transaction, see
“Description of Business - Main Strategic Investments - Barkerville Gold Mines
Ltd”. 
Silver Stream with Falco Resources Ltd. in respect of the
Horne 5 Project in Rouyn-Noranda, Québec 
On June 18, 2018, Falco and Osisko announced the execution of a
binding letter agreement respecting the Falco Silver Stream. The Falco Silver
Stream closed on February 27, 2019. For further details on the Falco Silver
Stream, see “Description of Business - Main Strategic Investments - Falco
Resources Ltd.”. 
Concurrent to this announcement, Osisko also announced the
purchase from Falco of a secured debenture having a principal amount of
$7,000,000 (the “Falco Debenture”).
On November 29, 2018, Falco obtained the required disinterested
shareholder approvals for the conversion of the Falco Debenture and the Falco
Debenture was converted into 12,104,444 units of Falco, each consisting of one (1) Falco Share and one-half (½)
of one common share purchase warrant, each whole warrant entitling its holder to
purchase one (1) Falco Share, subject to customary anti-dilution clauses, at a
price of $0.75 for a period of thirty-six (36) months. 
38 

Acquisition of a Gold Royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s
Eagle Gold Project in Canada 
On April 16, 2018, Osisko announced the completion of a $148
million financing transaction with Victoria pursuant to which Osisko acquired a
5% NSR royalty for $98 million (the “Eagle Royalty Purchase”) on the
Dublin Gulch property which hosts the Eagle Project located in Yukon, Canada.

As part of the transaction, Osisko has also purchased on a
private placement basis, 100,000,000 common shares of Victoria at a price of
$0.50 per common share (the “Victoria Private Placement”), for total
financing by Osisko of $148 million including the Eagle Royalty Purchase (the
“Victoria Financing”). 
Osisko purchased a 5% NSR royalty on all metals and minerals
produced from the Dublin Gulch property, which includes the Eagle and Olive
deposits, until an aggregate of 97,500 ounces of refined gold have been
delivered to Osisko, and a 3% NSR royalty thereafter. The purchase price for the
royalty is an aggregate of $98 million, of which a first tranche of $49 million
was advanced as of April 16, 2018 and the second tranche of $49 million will be
funded pro rata to drawdowns under the subordinated debt component of the Orion
debt facilities. 
The proceeds of the Victoria Private Placement will be used
primarily for the purpose of advancing construction of the Eagle Project and for
working capital purposes. Additionally, in connection with the Victoria
Financing, Osisko has obtained the right to nominate one of the members of
Victoria’s board of directors. In June 2018, Mr. Sean Roosen was appointed to
the board of Victoria. 
In connection with the Victoria Financing, Victoria has also
entered into definitive and binding agreements with an affiliate of Orion Mine
Finance pursuant to which Orion has agreed to provide debt facilities to
Victoria, and has purchased from Victoria, on a private placement basis, 150
million common shares of Victoria at a price of $0.50 per common share. Victoria
has also entered into definitive agreements with Caterpillar Financial Services
Limited with respect to a US$50 million equipment financing facility. All of
such agreements were entered into with respect to a construction financing
package totaling approximately $505 million in aggregate (including the Victoria
Financing). 
2017 
Increase of Credit Facility to $350 Million 
On November 14, 2017, Osisko announced that it has
amended its revolving credit facility, increasing the amount from $150 million
to $350 million, with an additional uncommitted accordion of up to $100 million,
for a total availability of up to $450 million (the “2017 Credit
Agreement”). National Bank of Canada continues to act as administrative
agent and as lender, and the syndicate of financial institutions includes Bank
of Montreal, The Bank of Nova Scotia, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Royal
Bank of Canada, The Toronto-Dominion Bank and Export Development Canada.
National Bank Financial Inc. acted as sole lead arranger and bookrunner. The
facility is secured by Osisko’s assets and has an initial term of four (4)
years. In 2018, Osisko extended the maturity date of the 2017 Credit Agreement
by one (1) year to November 14, 2022. 
Acquisition of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s
Back Forty Project in Michigan, USA 
On November 9, 2017, Osisko announced that OBL agreed to
acquire a gold stream with reference to the future gold produced from the Back
Forty property (the “Back Forty Project”) located in Michigan, USA from
Aquila. OBL will make a staged upfront cash deposit to Aquila of up to US$55
million for the gold stream, and will make ongoing payments equal to 30% of the
spot price of gold, to a maximum of US$600 per ounce. In addition to the gold
stream, OBL has agreed to purchase units in the amount of US$10 million as part of a concurrent private placement with Aquila.
OBL owns a 75% stream on all silver produced on the Back Forty Project, which
was acquired in July 2017 through the acquisition of the Orion Mine Finance
portfolio. 
39 

Pursuant to a gold purchase agreement dated November 27, 2017
between OBL and Aquila, OBL has purchased a gold stream equivalent to 18.5% of
the refined gold from the Back Forty Project until 105,000 ounces of gold have
been delivered (the “Back Forty Threshold Stream”), and 9.25% of
the refined gold for the remaining life of mine (the “Back Forty Tail
Stream”). Payable gold under the stream will be subject to minimum
payability rates based on the product produced. As consideration for the gold
stream, OBL will pay to Aquila a staged upfront cash deposit of up to US$55
million (the “Back Forty Deposit”) plus ongoing payments equal to
30% of the spot price of gold on the day of delivery, to a maximum of US$600 per
ounce. 
The Back Forty Deposit will be paid in four installments, as
follows: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 US$7.5 million (paid on closing);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 US$7.5 million (paid in October 2018);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 US$10 million payable following a positive construction
 decision for the Back Forty Project; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 US$30 million payable upon the first drawdown of an
 appropriate project debt finance facility (the “Back Forty Fourth
 Deposit”), subject to the Back Forty CoC
Provision.
In the event of a change of control of Aquila prior to the
advancement of the Back Forty Fourth Deposit, the person or entity acquiring
control over the Back Forty Project may elect to forego the Back Forty Fourth
Deposit, in which case the Back Forty Threshold Stream and Back Forty Tail
Stream will reduce to 9.5% and 4.75%, respectively (the “Back Forty
CoC Provision”). All other terms and conditions of the gold stream will
remain unchanged. 
The gold stream will be secured by a first priority lien on the
Back Forty Project and all assets of Aquila.
As part of the transaction, OBL has purchased US$10 million of
units in Aquila at a price of $0.26 per unit (the “Aquila Private
Placement”). Each unit is comprised of one (1) common share and one quarter
of one common share purchase warrant, with each full warrant entitling OBL to
purchase one (1) common share of Aquila for $0.34 for a period of 42 months
following closing of the Aquila Private Placement. So long as OBL continues to
hold more than 10% of the Aquila common shares, OBL will have the right to
nominate one representative to Aquila’s board of directors and the right to
participate in any future equity or equity-linked offerings to maintain its pro
rata ownership interest. Joseph de la Plante, current Vice President, Corporate
Development of Osisko, was appointed to the board of Aquila. 
Closing of a $300 million Financing of Debentures

On November 3, 2017, Osisko closed an offering of convertible
senior unsecured debentures in an aggregate principal amount of $300 million
(the “Debentures”). The offering was comprised of a public offering, by
way of a short form prospectus, of $184 million aggregate principal amount of
Debentures and a private placement offering of $116 million aggregate principal
amount of Debentures, including the exercise in full of the underwriters’
option. The Debentures were sold on a “bought deal” basis through the 2017
Underwriters.
The Debentures bear interest at a rate of 4.00% per annum,
payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31 each year, commencing on June
30, 2018. The Debentures will be convertible at the holders’ option into Osisko
Shares at a conversion price equal to $22.89 per Osisko Share (representing a
conversion rate of 43.6872 Osisko Shares per $1,000 principal amount of
Debentures). The Debentures will mature on December 31, 2022 and may be redeemed by Osisko,
in certain circumstances, on or after December 31, 2020. 
40 

Private Placement and Warrant Exercise with Dalradian
Resources Inc. 
On October 10, 2017, Osisko announced that it has entered into
an agreement with Dalradian pursuant to which Osisko has agreed to purchase
19,217,687 common shares of Dalradian at $1.47 per common share for a total
investment of $28.3 million. In addition, Osisko exercised 6.25 million warrants
at $1.04 per warrant, bringing the total investment to approximately $34.8
million. The agreement entered into with Dalradian contains various covenants
and rights, including among other things, a standstill, participation rights in
favour of Osisko to maintain its pro rata interest in Dalradian and rights to
match other offers for project financing. 
Arizona Mining Inc. 
On October 10, 2017, Osisko announced that it has divested its
investment in Arizona Mining for gross proceeds of $32.5 million, generating a
gain for Osisko of $22.8 million on the disposal of the investment, based on the
cash cost of the shares. 
Orion Transaction 
On July 31, 2017, Osisko acquired a precious metals portfolio
of assets from the Orion Parties consisting of 61 royalties, 6 streams and 7
precious metal offtakes for $1.1 billion (the “Orion Transaction”). The
final acquisition price was comprised of US$504.8 million ($630.1 million) in
cash consideration, which includes an estimate of US$4.2 million ($5.1 million)
adjustment for the acquired working capital, and 30,906,594 Osisko Shares (the
“Orion Purchase Price”). 
This combination resulted in Osisko holding a total of 131
royalties, streams and offtakes, including 16 revenue-generating assets. Through
the Orion Transaction, Osisko acquired a 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard
Diamond Mine in addition to a 100% silver stream on the Mantos Blancos Mine.
Certain assets are held through an international wholly-owned subsidiary which
was renamed Osisko Bermuda Limited. 
As part of the Orion Transaction, CDP Investissements Inc., an
affiliate of CDPQ, and the Fonds FTQ subscribed for $200 million and $75 million
in Osisko Shares, respectively, as part of a concurrent private placement (the
“Orion Private Placement”) to fund a portion of the cash consideration
and support the Orion Transaction. A total of 18,887,363 Osisko Shares were
issued at a price of $14.56 per share under the Orion Private Placement. The
Orion Private Placement was subject to a 7% capital commitment payment payable
partially in shares (2%, representing 385,457 Osisko Shares) and in cash (5%,
representing $13.8 million). 
Osisko also drew US$118 million ($147.3 million) under its
revolving credit facility, settled the foreign exchange forward contracts by
disbursing $275 million to acquire US$204 million and paid US$182.8 million
($228.9 million) from Osisko’s cash and cash equivalents balance. 
On closing of the Orion Transaction, Mr. Oskar Lewnowski,
founder and Chief Investment Officer of Orion Resource Partners, has been
appointed as nominee director to the Osisko Board. 
Acquisition of Additional Gold Royalty on Barkerville
Gold Mines Ltd.’s Cariboo Property 
In April 2017, Osisko acquired an additional 0.75% NSR royalty
on the Cariboo Property for cash consideration of $12.5 million, increasing the
total NSR royalty held by Osisko to 2.25%. 
41 

IDM Mining Ltd. 
On March 8, 2017, Osisko announced that it has subscribed for
29,400,000 common shares of IDM Mining Ltd. at a price of $0.17 per share and
41,000,000 flow-through common shares at a price of $0.25 per share for a total
subscription price of $15,248,000. In connection with this private placement,
IDM Mining Ltd. granted to Osisko certain pre-emptive rights in respect to
purchases or grants of royalties or streams from the Red Mountain gold project.

Acquisition of Silver Stream on Taseko Mines Limited’s
Gibraltar Copper Mine 
On March 3, 2017, Osisko acquired a silver stream with
reference to silver produced at the Gibraltar copper mine located in British
Columbia, Canada, from Gibraltar Mines Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Taseko. Taseko owns a 75% joint venture interest in the Gibraltar copper mine.
Osisko paid Taseko cash consideration of US$33 million for the silver stream. In
addition, Osisko will make ongoing payments of US$2.75 per ounce of silver
delivered. 
The principal terms of this agreement are as follows: 

 
 Osisko will receive from Taseko an amount equal to 100% of Taseko’s share
 of the silver production on the Gibraltar copper mine until delivery of 5.9
 million ounces of silver; 
 
 Osisko paid Taseko a cash consideration of US$33 million for the silver
 stream as an advance payment against the purchase price for the sale of silver
 to Osisko; 
 
 The effective date of the transaction is January 1, 2017. Any silver in
 respect of which a delivery is made to an offtaker after January 1, 2017, is
 subject to the stream; 
 
 The silver payability rate is 90% of contained silver in concentrate; 
 
 Osisko will make ongoing payments of US$2.75 to Taseko per silver ounce
 delivered; 
 
 Silver deliveries will be the secured, subordinated obligation of Gibraltar
 Mines Ltd., but will be guaranteed by Taseko; and 
 
 Taseko has granted Osisko 3 million common share purchase warrants (the
 “Taseko Warrants”), with each Taseko Warrant entitling Osisko to
 purchase one (1) common share of Taseko at an exercise price of $2.74. The
 Taseko Warrants will expire on April 1, 2020. If at any point during the life
 of the Taseko Warrants, Taseko’s share price trades at a premium of 25% above
 the exercise price for a 30-day consecutive period, Taseko may force the
 exercise of the Taseko Warrants. 
42 

Sale of interest in Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation

Over the course of the fourth quarter of 2016 and January 2017,
Osisko sold its 9.8% interest in Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation. Osisko
received $113.4 million in proceeds (including $98.2 million in 2016). During
the period it held shares of Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation, Osisko
received $10.7 million in dividends. 
2016
Earn-In Agreement with Osisko Mining Inc.

In 2015, Osisko was granted a right to acquire a 1% NSR royalty
on all properties held by Osisko Mining as of August 25, 2015. This right was
exercised by Osisko in October 2016 for $5 million and included a 1% NSR royalty
on the Windfall property. This exercise brought the total NSR royalty held by
Osisko on the Windfall property to 1.5%, including a 0.5% NSR royalty acquired
in 2015. 
Effective October 4, 2016, Osisko entered into an earn-in
agreement with Osisko Mining, which was subsequently amended to create two
separate earn-in agreements. For further details, see “Description of Business -
Exploration and Evaluation Activities”. As part of the transaction, Osisko
Mining hired most of the Osisko Québec based exploration team (former Virginia
employees) and took over the Québec office lease. 
In 2018, Osisko GR acquired a 1% NSR royalty on part of the
Windfall property located north of the majority of the mineral resource, hosting
a small portion of the mineral resource, and a 2% NSR royalty on the northern
part of the Windfall property. 
Listing on the NYSE 
On July 6, 2016, the Osisko Shares began to trade on the NYSE
under the ticker symbol “OR”. 
Highland Copper Company Inc. 
On June 30, 2016, Highland and Osisko agreed to amend the terms
of their agreement entered into in December 2014 and to convert the $10 million
secured loan into a 3% NSR royalty on all metals produced from the mineral
rights and leases associated with the Copperwood project. Upon closing of the
acquisition of the White Pine project, Highland will grant Osisko a 1.5% NSR
royalty on all metals produced from the White Pine project, and Osisko’s royalty
on Copperwood will be reduced to 1.5%. Following the conversion, Osisko retains
its option to purchase for US$26 million any future silver production from the
White Pine and Copperwood projects. 
$10 Million Senior Note with Falco Resources Ltd.

On May 30, 2016, Osisko entered into an agreement to provide
Falco with the 2016 Falco Senior Note under which Osisko has provided Falco with
a $10 million loan, with interest on the principal amount at a rate per annum
that is equal to 7%. The Falco Senior Note was subsequently amended on November
29, 2017, February 14, 2018, May 31, 2018 and December 19, 2018 to extend its
maturity. 
The principal amount under the 2016 Falco Senior Note was
reimbursed through the deposit made by Osisko on the closing of the Falco Silver
Stream (See “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2019 - Closing of
Silver Stream Transaction with Falco Resources Ltd.”). The interest owed under the 2016 Falco Senior Note was paid on
March 13, 2019 through the issuance of Falco Shares at a deemed price of $0.34
per share. 
43 

Arizona Mining Inc. 
On April 25, 2016, Osisko acquired for $10 million a 1% NSR
royalty on any lead/zinc/silver sulfide ores mined from the Hermosa project
owned by Arizona Mining. The Hermosa project is located in Santa Cruz County,
Arizona. Osisko also subscribed for a total of 8,930,000 units at a price of
$0.56 per unit, for gross proceeds of $5,000,800. Each unit consisted of one (1)
common share of Arizona Mining and one half of one common share purchase
warrant, each whole warrant being convertible into one (1) common share of
Arizona Mining at a price of $0.75 for a period of 18 months. 
$173 Million Bought Deal Public Offering 
On February 26, 2016, Osisko closed a bought deal public
offering by way of a short form prospectus in all of the provinces of Canada of
11,431,000 units (the “2016 Units”), including the full exercise of an
over-allotment option by a syndicate of underwriters co-led by BMO Nesbitt Burns
Inc. and RBC Dominion Securities Inc., at a price of $15.10 per 2016 Unit,
representing aggregate gross proceeds to Osisko of $172.6 million.
Each 2016 Unit was comprised of one (1) Osisko Share and
one-half of one common share purchase warrant, each full warrant entitling the
holder thereof to purchase one (1) Osisko Share at a price of $19.08 per Osisko
Share for a period of 36 months. 
$50 Million Financing with Ressources Québec Inc.

On February 12, 2016, Ressources Québec, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Investissement Québec, subscribed to a five-year $50 million
convertible debenture, bearing interest at an annual rate of 4% payable
quarterly (the “RQ Debenture”). Ressources Québec will be entitled, at
its option, to convert the RQ Debenture into Osisko Shares at a price of $19.08
per Osisko Share at any time during its term. 
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
On February 5, 2016, Osisko announced that it closed its
previously announced royalty financing and the second tranche of the private
placement with Barkerville (a first tranche of $6 million closed on December 23,
2015). On November 30, 2015, Osisko and Barkerville announced the entering into
of a binding letter agreement whereby Osisko agreed to purchase 32,000,000
common shares, issued on a flow-through basis, of Barkerville at a price of
$0.32 per share for total proceeds of $10.24 million as well as a 1.5% NSR
royalty on the Cariboo Property located in British Columbia, Canada, for cash
consideration of $25 million. 
Osisko retains a right of first refusal relating to any gold
stream offer received by Barkerville with respect to the Cariboo Property. 
Osisko was also granted the right to appoint two nominees to
the board of directors of Barkerville. 
Osisko Mining Inc. and NioGold Mining Corporation

On January 11, 2016, Osisko Mining announced its intention to
acquire all of the outstanding shares of NioGold by way of a statutory plan of
arrangement (the “NioGold Arrangement”). In connection with the NioGold
Arrangement, Osisko Mining also announced a “best efforts” private placement of
8,333,333 subscription receipts of Osisko Mining (the “Osisko Mining
SRs”) at a subscription price of $1.20 per Osisko Mining SR for total gross
proceeds of $10 million (the “Osisko Mining Offering”).
Each Osisko Mining SR entitled the holder thereof to receive,
for no additional consideration and without further action on the part of the
holder thereof, following the satisfaction by Osisko Mining of the release
conditions (a) one (1) Osisko Mining Share and (b) one (1) common share purchase
warrant of Osisko Mining (an “Osisko Mining Warrant”). Each Osisko Mining
Warrant is exercisable into one Osisko Mining Share for a period of thirty-six (36) months from the closing
date of the Osisko Mining Offering at an exercise price of $1.44. 
44 

The Osisko Mining Offering closed on February 3, 2016, with
10,521,700 Osisko Mining SRs sold (which included a partial exercise of an
over-allotment option) for gross proceeds of $12.6 million. 
Osisko subscribed for and received 800,000 Osisko Mining SRs
under the Osisko Mining Offering.
In connection with the NioGold Arrangement, which closed on
March 11, 2016, Osisko received an additional 9,833,495 Osisko Mining Shares.

Significant Acquisitions
Osisko has not completed any significant acquisition during its
most recently completed financial year and for which disclosure is required
under Part 8 of NI 51-102. 
RISK FACTORS 
In evaluating Osisko and its business, the readers should
carefully consider the risk factors which follow. These risk factors may not be
a definitive list of all risk factors associated with an investment in Osisko or
in connection with the business and operations of Osisko. 
Commodity Price Risks 
Changes in the market price of the commodities
underlying Osisko’s interests may affect the profitability of
Osisko and the revenue generated therefrom
The revenue derived by Osisko from its portfolio of royalties,
streams and other interests and investments might be significantly affected by
changes in the market price of the commodities underlying its agreements.
Commodity prices, including those to which Osisko is exposed, fluctuate on a
daily basis and are affected by numerous factors beyond the control of Osisko,
including levels of supply and demand, industrial development levels, inflation
and the level of interest rates, the strength of the U.S. dollar and
geopolitical factors. All commodities, by their nature, are subject to wide
price fluctuations and future material price declines will result in a decrease
in revenue or, in the case of severe declines that cause a suspension or
termination of production by relevant operators, a complete cessation of revenue
from royalties, streams or other interests applicable to one or more relevant
commodities. Moreover, the broader commodity market tends to be cyclical, and a
general downturn in overall commodity prices could result in a significant
decrease in overall revenue. Any such price decline may result in a material
adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations and financial
condition. 
Third Party Operator Risks 
Osisko has limited access to data regarding the operation
of mines in which it has royalties, streams or other interests 
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
does not serve as the mine’s operator and has little or no input into how the
operations are conducted. As such, Osisko has varying access to data on the
operations or to the actual properties themselves. This could affect its ability
to assess the value of its interest or enhance the performance thereof. It is
difficult or impossible for Osisko to ensure that the properties are operated in
its best interest. Payments related to Osisko’s royalties, streams or other
interests may be calculated by the payors in a manner different from Osisko’s
projections. Osisko does, however, have rights of audit with respect to such
royalties, streams or other interests. 
45 

Osisko has little or no control over mining operations in
which it holds royalties, streams or other interests 
Osisko has few or no contractual rights relating to the
operation or development of mines in which it only holds royalties, streams or
other interests. Osisko may not be entitled to any material compensation if
these mining operations do not meet their forecasted production targets in any
specified period or if the mines shut down or discontinue their operations on a
temporary or permanent basis. Certain of these properties may not commence
production within the time frames anticipated, if at all, and there can be no
assurance that the production, if any, from such properties will ultimately meet
forecasts or targets. At any time, any of the operators of the mines or their
successors may decide to suspend or discontinue operations. Osisko is subject to
the risks that the mines shut down on a temporary or permanent basis due to
issues including, but not limited to, economic, lack of financial capital,
floods, fire, mechanical malfunctions, social unrest, expropriation, community
relations and other risks. These issues are common in the mining industry and
can occur frequently. 
Osisko is dependent on the payment or delivery of amounts
for royalties, streams or other interests by the owners and operators of certain
properties and any delay in or failure of such payments or deliveries will
affect the revenues generated by Osisko’s asset portfolio 
Royalties, streams and other interests in natural resource
properties are largely contractual in nature. Parties to contracts do not always
honour contractual terms and contracts themselves may be subject to
interpretation or technical defects. To the extent grantors of royalties,
streams or other interests do not abide by their contractual obligations, Osisko
would be forced to take legal action to enforce its contractual rights. Such
litigation may be time consuming and costly and there is no guarantee of
success. While any proceedings or actions are pending, or if any decision is
determined adversely to Osisko, such litigation may have a material adverse
effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations and financial condition.

In addition, Osisko is dependent to a large extent upon the
financial viability and operational effectiveness of owners and operators of the
relevant properties. Payments and/or deliveries from production generally flow
through the operator and there is a risk of delay and additional expense in
receiving such revenues. Payments and/or deliveries may be delayed by
restrictions imposed by lenders, delays in the sale or delivery of products, the
ability or willingness of smelters and refiners to process mine products,
recovery by the operators of expenses incurred in the operation of the
properties, the establishment by the operators of reserves for such expenses or
the insolvency of the operator. Osisko’s rights to payment and/or delivery under
the royalties, streams or other interests must, in most cases, be enforced by
contract without the protection of a security interest over property that Osisko
could readily liquidate. This inhibits Osisko’s ability to collect outstanding
royalties, streams or other interests upon a default. In the event of a
bankruptcy of an operator or owner, Osisko may have a limited prospect for full
recovery of revenues. Failure to receive any payments and/or deliveries from the
owners and operators of the relevant properties may result in a material and
adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operation and financial
condition.
Osisko is exposed to risks related to exploration,
permitting, construction and/or development in relation to the projects and
properties in which it holds a royalty, stream or other interest 
Many of the projects or properties in which Osisko holds a
royalty, stream or other interest in are in the exploration, permitting,
construction and/or development stage and such projects are subject to numerous
risks, including but not limited to, delays in obtaining equipment, materials
and services essential to the exploration, construction and development of such
projects in a timely manner, delays or inability to obtain required permits,
changes in environmental regulations or other regulations, currency exchange
rates, labour shortages, cost escalations and fluctuations in metal prices.
There can be no assurance that the owners or operators of such projects will
have the financial, technical and operational resources to complete exploration,
permitting, construction and/or development of such projects in accordance with
current expectations or at all. It is also possible that such owners or
operators will require additional capital in order for their projects to become
producing mines. Osisko may be asked to provide additional capital to these entities and may decide to do so to preserve
the value of its initial investment. There is a risk that the carrying values of
certain of Osisko’s assets may not be recoverable if the operating entities
cannot raise additional capital to continue to explore and develop their assets.
The value of Osisko’s interests in these projects could thus be negatively
affected by many factors, some of which cannot be assessed at the time of
investment. Although Osisko undertakes a due diligence process for every
investment, mining exploration and development are subject to many risks and it
is possible that the value realized by Osisko be less than the original
investment. 
46 

Some agreements may provide limited recourse in
particular circumstances which may further inhibit Osisko’s ability to recover
or obtain equitable relief in the event of a default under such agreements 
Osisko’s rights to payment under royalties, streams or other
interests must, in most cases, be enforced by contract. Osisko’s ability to
collect outstanding royalties, streams or other interests, or obtain equitable
relief upon cases of default, might be limited pursuant to such contracts.
Certain royalty and stream agreements provide for certain protections and
security interests in favour of Osisko. However, security arrangements may be
difficult to realize upon and also be subordinate, which may cause Osisko to be
at a disadvantage in the event of a default. In the event of a bankruptcy, it is
possible that an operator or owner claims that Osisko should be treated as an
unsecured creditor and that Osisko’s rights should be terminated in an
insolvency proceeding. Failure to receive payments from the owners and operators
of the relevant properties, or termination of Osisko’s rights, may result in a
material and adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations and
financial condition. 
Risks related to mining operations 
Mining operations involve significant risks that even a
combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate or
adequately mitigate. Major expenditures are required to develop metallurgical
processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular
site. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number
of factors, some of which are: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as
size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which are highly
volatile; and governmental regulations, including those relating to prices,
taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, allowable production, importing and
exporting of minerals and environmental protection.
Thus, Osisko’s business might be impacted by such risks
inherent to mining operations and is dependent, among other things, on mining
operations conducted by third parties. 
Osisko may acquire royalties, streams or other interests
in respect of properties that are speculative and there can be no guarantee that
mineable deposits will be discovered or developed 
Exploration for metals and minerals is a speculative venture
necessarily involving substantial risk. There is no certainty that the
expenditures made by the operator of any given project will result in
discoveries of commercial quantities of minerals on lands where Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests. 
If mineable deposits are discovered, substantial expenditures
are required to establish reserves through drilling, to develop processes to
extract the resources and, in the case of new properties, to develop the
extraction and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for
extraction. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a
major deposit, no assurance can be given that resources will be discovered in
sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds
required for development can be obtained on terms acceptable to the operator or
at all. Although, in respect of these properties, Osisko intends to only hold
royalties, streams or other interests and not be responsible for these
expenditures, the operator may not be in a financial position to obtain the
necessary funds to advance the project. 
Operational Risks 
The properties on which Osisko holds royalties, streams
or other interests are subject to exploration and mining risks 
Osisko seeks to acquire royalties, streams or other interests
 in mineral properties or equity interests in companies that have exploration
 properties, advanced staged development projects or operating mines. Royalties,
 streams or other interests are non-operating interests in mining projects that
 provide the right to revenue or production from the project after deducting
 specified costs, if any. Mineral exploration and development involves a high
 degree of risk and few properties which are explored are ultimately developed
 into producing mines. The long-term profitability of Osisko’s operations will be
 in part directly related to the cost and ultimate success of the operating mines
 in which Osisko has royalties, streams or other interest or the companies in
 which Osisko has equity interests, which may be affected by a number of factors
 beyond Osisko’s control. 
47 

Operating a producing mine involves many risks, which even a
combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to
overcome. Operations in which Osisko has a direct or indirect interest are and
will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration,
development and production of mineral resources and mineral reserves, any of
which could result in work stoppages, damage to property, and possible
environmental damage. 
Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations and
other conditions such as fire, power outages, flooding, explosions, cave-ins,
landslides and the inability to obtain suitable machinery, equipment or labour
are involved in mineral exploration, development and operation. Operating
companies which operate on properties on which Osisko has royalties, streams or
other interests may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or
hazards against which they cannot insure or against which they may elect not to
insure. The payment of such liabilities may have a material, adverse effect on
the financial position of such operating companies, and in turn, may have a
material adverse effect on the financial position of Osisko. 
In addition, labour disruptions are a hazard to mineral
exploration, development and operation. There is always a risk that strikes or
other types of conflict with unions or employees may occur at any one of the
properties on which Osisko may hold royalties, streams or other interests.
Although it is uncertain whether labour disruptions will be used to advocate
labour, political or social goals in the future, labour disruptions could have a
material adverse effect on the results of operations of the mineral properties
in which Osisko may hold an interest. 
Agreements pertaining to royalties, streams or other interests
are based on mine life and in some instances a drop in metal prices or a change
in metallurgy may result in a project being shut down with a material, adverse
effect on that company’s financial position, and in turn, may have a material
adverse effect on the financial position of Osisko. 
The properties held by Osisko or on which Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests may require permits and licenses

The properties held by Osisko or on which Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests, including the mine operations, may
require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be
no assurance that the operator of any given project will be able to obtain or
maintain, in a timely manner and on terms favourable to such operator, all
necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration,
development and mining operations. 
Mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates have
inherent uncertainty 
Mineral resource and mineral reserve figures are only
estimates. Such estimates are expressions of judgment based on knowledge, mining
experience, analysis of drilling results and industry practices. While Osisko
believes that the mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates, as applicable,
in respect of properties in which Osisko holds a direct interest or royalties,
streams or other interests reflect best estimates performed by or on behalf of
the owner of such properties, the estimating of mineral resources and mineral reserves is a subjective process and the accuracy
of mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates is a function of the quantity
and quality of available data, the accuracy of statistical computations, and the
assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting available engineering and
geological information. There is significant uncertainty in any mineral resource
and mineral reserve estimate and the actual deposits encountered and the
economic viability of a deposit may differ materially from estimates. Estimated
mineral resources and mineral reserves may have to be re-estimated based on
changes in prices of gold or other minerals, further exploration or development
activity or actual production experience. This could materially and adversely
affect estimates of the volume or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery
rates or other important factors that influence such estimates. In addition,
mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any
mineral resource estimate will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable
mineral reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have
demonstrated economic viability. 
48 

If operators reduce their mineral reserves and mineral
resources on properties underlying Osisko’s royalties, streams or other
interests, this may result in a material and adverse effect on Osisko’s
profitability, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price
of Osisko securities. 
Economics of developing mineral properties 
Mineral exploration and development is speculative and involves
a high degree of risk. While the discovery of an ore body may result in
substantial rewards, few properties which are explored are commercially mineable
and ultimately developed into producing mines. There is no assurance that any
exploration properties will be commercially mineable. 
Should any mineral resources and mineral reserves exist,
substantial expenditures will be required to confirm mineral reserves which are
sufficient to commercially mine and to obtain the required environmental
approvals and permitting required to commence commercial operations. The
decision as to whether a property contains a commercially viable mineral deposit
and should be brought into production will depend upon the results of
exploration programs and/or feasibility studies, and the recommendations of duly
qualified engineers and/or geologists, all of which involves significant
expense. This decision will involve consideration and evaluation of several
significant factors including, but not limited to: (a) costs of bringing a
property into production, including exploration and development work,
preparation of production feasibility studies and construction of production
facilities; (b) availability and costs of financing; (c) ongoing costs of
production; (d) metal prices; (e) environmental compliance regulations and
restraints (including potential environmental liabilities associated with
historical exploration activities); and (f) political climate and/or
governmental regulation and control. Development projects are also subject to
the successful completion of engineering studies, issuance of necessary
governmental permits, and availability of adequate financing. Development
projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash
flow. 
Factors beyond the control of Osisko 
The potential profitability of mineral properties is dependent
upon many factors beyond Osisko’s control. For instance, world prices of and
markets for minerals are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to
governmental fixing, pegging and/or controls and respond to changes in domestic,
international, political, social and economic environments. Another factor is
that rates of recovery of minerals from mined ore (assuming that such mineral
deposits are known to exist) may vary from the rate experienced in tests and a
reduction in the recovery rate will adversely affect profitability and,
possibly, the economic viability of a property. Profitability also depends on
the costs of operations, including costs of labour, equipment, electricity,
environmental compliance or other production inputs. Such costs will fluctuate
in ways Osisko cannot predict and are beyond Osisko’s control, and such
fluctuations will impact on profitability and may eliminate profitability
altogether. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the
availability and cost of funds for development and other costs have become
increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events
may materially affect the financial performance of Osisko. 
Influence of third party stakeholders 
The lands held by Osisko or the companies in which Osisko has
 royalties, streams or other interests, and the roads or other means of access
 which they utilize or intend to utilize in carrying out work programs or general
 business mandates, may be subject to interests or claims by third party
 individuals, groups or companies. In the event that such third parties assert
 any claims, work programs may be delayed even if such claims are not meritorious
 or the scope of the work may otherwise be affected. Such delays may result in
 significant financial loss and loss of opportunity for Osisko. 
Foreign operation risk 
Certain properties held by Osisko or the companies in which
 Osisko has royalties, streams or other interests are located outside of the
 United States and Canada. The ownership, development and operation of these
 properties may be subject to additional risks associated with conducting
 business in foreign countries, including, depending on the country,
 nationalization and expropriation, social unrest, political and economic
 instability, lack of infrastructure, less developed legal and regulatory
 systems, uncertainties in perfecting mineral titles, crime, violence,
 corruption, trade barriers, exchange controls and material changes in taxation.
 These risks may, among other things, limit or disrupt the ownership, development
 or operation of properties, mines or projects to which such properties relate,
 restrict the movement of funds, or result in the deprivation of contractual
 rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without
 fair compensation. 
49 

Information Systems and Cyber Security
Osisko relies on its IT infrastructure to meet its business
objectives. Osisko uses different IT systems, networks, equipment and software
and has adopted security measures to prevent and detect cyber threats. However,
Osisko and its counterparties under precious metal purchase agreements,
third-party service providers and vendors may be vulnerable to cyber threats,
which have been evolving in terms of sophistication and new threats are emerging
at an increased rate. Unauthorized third parties may be able to penetrate
network security and misappropriate or compromise confidential information,
create system disruptions or cause shutdowns to Osisko or its counterparties.
Although Osisko has not experienced any losses relating to cyber attacks or
other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that there will
be no such loss in the future. Significant security breaches or system failures
of Osisko or its counterparties, especially if such breach goes undetected for a
period of time, may result in significant costs, loss of revenue, fines or
lawsuits and damage to reputation. The significance of any cyber security breach
is difficult to quantify, but may in certain circumstances be material and could
have a material adverse effect on Osisko’s business, financial condition and
results of operations. 
Reputational Risks 
Osisko is subject to reputational risks 
Reputational risk is the risk that an activity undertaken by an
organization or its representatives will impair its image in the community or
lower public confidence in it, resulting in loss of revenue, legal action or
increased regulatory oversight and loss of valuation and share price. Possible
sources of reputational risk could come from, but not limited to, operational
failures, non-compliance with laws and regulations, or leading an unsuccessful
financing. In addition to its risk management policies, controls and procedures,
Osisko has a formal Code of Ethics to help manage and support Osisko’s
reputation. 
Financial Condition Risks 
Osisko is subject to risks related to its financial
condition 
Osisko’s financial condition has an impact on its risk profile.
A sound financial condition can allow Osisko to compete for accretive investment
opportunities: the better the financial condition, the more it can bid and compete on quality assets. If additional funds are
required, the source of funds that may be available to Osisko, in addition to
cash flows, is through the issuance of additional equity capital, borrowings or
the sale of assets. There is no assurance that such funding will continue to be
available to Osisko. Furthermore, even if such financing is available, there can
be no assurance that it will be obtained on terms favourable to Osisko or
provide Osisko with sufficient funds to meet its objectives, which may adversely
affect Osisko’s business and financial condition. In addition, failure to comply
with financial covenants under Osisko’s current or future debt agreements or to
make scheduled payments of the principal of, or to pay interest on its
indebtedness, would likely result in an event of default under the debt
agreements and would allow the lenders to accelerate the debt under these
agreements, which may affect Osisko’s financial condition. 
Additional financing may result in dilution 
Osisko may require additional funds to further its activities.
 To obtain such funds, Osisko may issue additional securities including, but not
 limited to, Osisko Shares or some form of convertible security, the effect of
 which could result in a substantial dilution of the equity interests of Osisko
 Shareholders. 
50 

There can be no assurance that Osisko will be able to obtain
adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be
favourable. 
Declaration and payment of dividends 
Any decisions to declare and pay dividends on the Osisko Shares
is subject to the discretion of the Osisko Board, based on, among other things,
Osisko’s earnings, financial requirements for Osisko’s operations, the
satisfaction of applicable solvency tests for the declaration and payment of
dividends and other conditions existing from time to time. As a result, no
assurance can be given as to the frequency or amount of any such dividend. 
Osisko may be a “passive foreign investment company,” or
PFIC, under applicable U.S. income tax rules, which could result in adverse tax
consequences for United States investors
If Osisko were to constitute a PFIC for any year during a U.S.
holder’s holding period, then certain potentially adverse U.S. federal income
tax rules would affect the U.S. federal income tax consequences to such U.S.
holder resulting from the acquisition, ownership and disposition of Osisko
Shares. 
The U.S. Treasury Department has not issued specific guidance
on how the income and assets of a non-U.S. corporation such as Osisko will be
treated under the PFIC rules. Osisko believes, on a more likely than not basis,
that it was not a PFIC for its tax year ended December 31, 2018, and, based on
its current and anticipated business activities and financial expectations,
Osisko expects, on a more likely than not basis that it will not be a PFIC for
its current tax year and for the foreseeable future. 
The determination as to whether a corporation is, or will be, a
PFIC for a particular tax year depends, in part, on the application of complex
U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to differing interpretations
and uncertainty. In addition, there is limited authority on the application of
the relevant PFIC rules to entities such as Osisko. Accordingly, there can be no
assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge the views of
Osisko concerning its PFIC status. In addition, whether any corporation will be
a PFIC for any tax year depends on its assets and income over the course of such
tax year, and, as a result, Osisko’s PFIC status for its current tax year and
any future tax year cannot be predicted with certainty. Each U.S. holder should
consult its own tax adviser regarding the PFIC status of Osisko. 
Changes in tax legislation or accounting rules could
affect the profitability of Osisko
Changes to, or differing interpretation of, taxation laws or
regulations in any of Canada, Australia, Brazil, Chile, Armenia, Kenya,
Macedonia, Argentina, Peru, Mexico, United States of America or any of the
countries in which Osisko’s assets or relevant contracting parties are located
could result in some or all of Osisko’s profits being subject to additional
taxation. No assurance can be given that new taxation rules or accounting policies will not be enacted or that existing rules
will not be applied in a manner which could result in Osisko’s profits being
subject to additional taxation or which could otherwise have a material adverse
effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations, financial condition and
the trading price of Osisko’s securities. In addition, the introduction of new
tax rules or accounting policies, or changes to, or differing interpretations
of, or application of, existing tax rules or accounting policies could make
royalties, streams or other interests by Osisko less attractive to
counterparties. Such changes could adversely affect Osisko’s ability to acquire
new assets or make future investments.
The CRA’s recent focus on foreign income earned by
Canadian companies may result in adverse tax consequences for Osisko
There has been a recent focus by the CRA on income earned by
 foreign subsidiaries of Canadian companies. The majority of Osisko’s offtake and
 stream assets are owned by and the related revenue is received by its Bermuda
 wholly-owned subsidiary. Osisko has not received any reassessment or proposal
 from the CRA in connection with income earned by its foreign subsidiaries.
 Although management believes that Osisko is in full compliance with Canadian tax
 law, there can be no assurance that Osisko’s structure may not be challenged in
 future. In the event the CRA successfully challenges Osisko’s structure, this
 could potentially result in additional federal and provincial taxes and
 penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on Osisko. 
51 

Financial Reporting Risks 
Osisko is subject to risks related to financial
reporting 
In accordance with statutory requirements and sound management
practices, Osisko issues financial statements, which present its financial
condition at a given date and its financial performance over a certain period.
The risk of misstatement of financial or restatement of financial statements can
result in significant losses to Osisko: financial losses, as a result of
litigation and fines, losses in market capitalization, reputational losses. Key
misstatements would include (a) fraudulent misappropriation of assets; (b)
fraudulent misrepresentation of performance motivated by personal gain; and (c)
inadequate estimates with an impact on valuation of assets and liabilities. 
Osisko may fail to maintain the adequacy of internal
control over financial reporting as per the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act
Section 404 of the SOX requires an annual assessment by
management of the effectiveness of Osisko’s internal control over financial
reporting and an attestation report by Osisko’s external auditor addressing this
assessment. While Osisko’s internal control over financial reporting for its
last completed financial year were effective, Osisko may in the future fail to
achieve and maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial
reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to
time, and Osisko may not be able to ensure that it can conclude on an ongoing
basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in
accordance with Section 404 of SOX. Osisko’s failure to satisfy the requirements
of section 404 of SOX and achieve and maintain the adequacy of its internal
control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence
in the reliability of its financial statements, which in turn could harm
Osisko’s business and negatively impact the trading price of securities. In
addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or
difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm Osisko’s operating
results or cause it to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Future
acquisitions of companies may provide Osisko with challenges in implementing the
required processes, procedures and controls in its acquired operations. Acquired
companies may not have disclosure controls and procedures or internal control
over financial reporting that are as thorough or effective as those currently
applicable to Osisko. 
No evaluation can provide complete assurance that Osisko’s
internal control over financial reporting will detect or uncover all failures of
persons within Osisko to disclose material information otherwise required to be
reported. The effectiveness of Osisko’s controls and procedures could also be
limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, should Osisko expand
in the future, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal
control over financial reporting will increase and will require that Osisko continue to improve its internal control over financial
reporting. Although Osisko intends to devote substantial time and incur
substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure compliance, Osisko cannot be certain
that it will be successful in complying with Section 404 on an ongoing basis.
Human Resources Risks 
Osisko may experience difficulty attracting and retaining
 qualified management and specialized technical personnel to grow
 its business, which could have a material adverse effect on Osisko’s business
 and financial condition 
Osisko may be dependent on the services of key executives and
 other highly skilled personnel focused on advancing its corporate objectives as
 well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. The loss
 of these persons or its inability to attract and retain additional highly
 skilled employees required for its activities may have a material adverse effect
 on Osisko’s business and financial condition. Osisko implemented a succession
 plan in order to mitigate the risk of being dependent on such key management and
 specialized technical personnel. From time to time, Osisko may also need to
 identify and retain additional skilled management and specialized technical
 personnel to efficiently operate its business. 
52 

Osisko or the companies in which Osisko holds royalties,
streams offtake or other interests may remain highly dependent upon contractors
and third parties in the performance of their exploration, development and
operational activities. There can be no guarantee that such contractors and
third parties will be available to carry out such activities on their behalf or
be available upon commercially acceptable terms. 
Currency Risks 
Osisko’s revenue, earnings, the value of its treasury and
the value it records for its assets are subject to variations in foreign
exchange rates, which may adversely affect the revenue generated by the asset
portfolio or cause adjustments to the recorded value of assets 
Osisko’s main activities and offices are currently located in
Canada and the costs associated with Osisko’s activities are in majority
denominated in Canadian dollar. However, Osisko’s revenues from the sale of
gold, silver or other commodities are in U.S. dollars. Osisko is subject to
foreign currency fluctuations and inflationary pressures, which may have a
material and adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations and
financial condition. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by
management to address variations in foreign exchange rates will eliminate all
adverse effects and Osisko may suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency
rate fluctuations.
Financial Markets Risks 
Osisko is subject to risks related to financial
markets 
Failure of financial markets can have a significant impact on
the valuation of Osisko and its assets, and increasing financial and takeover
risks. 
Fluctuation in market value of Osisko Shares 
The market price of the Osisko Shares is affected by many
variables not directly related to the corporate performance of Osisko, including
the strength of the economy generally, the availability and attractiveness of
alternative investments, and the breadth of the public market for the
securities. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of Osisko
Shares in the future cannot be predicted.
Securities markets have a high level of price and volume
volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have
experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related
to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such
companies. Factors unrelated to the financial performance or prospects of Osisko include
macroeconomic developments in North America and globally, and market perceptions
of the attractiveness of particular industries or asset classes. There can be no
assurance that continued fluctuations in mineral prices will not occur. As a
result of any of these factors, the market price of Osisko’s securities at any
given time may not accurately reflect the long term value of Osisko.
Equity Price Risk and Liquidity of Investments 
Osisko is exposed to equity price risk as a result of holding a
 portfolio of investments in publicly listed companies. Just as investing in
 Osisko is inherent with risks such as those set out in this Annual Information
 Form, by investing in these other companies, Osisko is exposed to the risks
 associated with owning equity securities and those risks inherent in the
 investee companies. Osisko may have difficulty in selling its investments in
 exploration and mining companies in the event such sales would be contemplated. 
53 

Legal Risks 
Osisko is subject to significant governmental regulations

Osisko’s activities are subject to extensive federal,
provincial and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including:
environmental protection; management and use of toxic substances and explosives;
management of natural resources; exploration of mineral properties; exports;
price controls; taxation; labour standards and occupational health and safety,
including mine safety; and historic and cultural preservation. 
Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may
result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including
orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities enjoining or curtailing
operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of additional
equipment or remedial actions, any of which could result in significant
expenditures. Osisko may also be required to compensate private parties
suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or
permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations,
or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental
authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions
on or suspensions of Osisko’s activities and delays in the exploration of
properties. 
Osisko’s business is subject to evolving corporate
governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both Osisko’s
compliance costs and the risk of non compliance, which could have an adverse
effect on the price of Osisko’s securities
Osisko is subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated
by a number of Canadian and U.S. governmental and self-regulated organizations.
These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many
new requirements have been created, making compliance more difficult and
uncertain. Osisko’s efforts to comply with rules and regulations have resulted
in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and
administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from
revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 
Osisko may be subject to liability or sustain loss for
certain risks and hazards against which it does not or cannot economically
insure 
Mining is capital intensive and subject to a number of risks
and hazards, including environmental pollution, accidents or spills, industrial
and transportation accidents, labour disputes, changes in the regulatory
environment, natural phenomena (such as inclement weather conditions,
earthquakes and encountering unusual or unexpected geological conditions. Such
risk and hazards might impact the business of Osisko or of the companies in
which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests. Consequently, many of
the foregoing risks and hazards could result in damage to, or destruction of,
mineral properties or future processing facilities, personal injury or death,
environmental damage, delays in or interruption of or cessation of their
exploration or development activities, delay in or inability to receive required regulatory approvals, or costs, monetary
losses and potential legal liability and adverse governmental action. Osisko, or
the companies in which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests, may
be subject to liability or sustain loss for certain risks and hazards against
which they do not or cannot insure or against which they may reasonably elect
not to insure because of the cost. This lack of insurance coverage could result
in material economic harm to Osisko. 
There can be no assurance of title to property 
There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties held
 by Osisko or the companies in which Osisko has royalties, streams or other
 interests. If there are title defects with respect to any such properties, they
 might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce its interest in
 the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution
 of title issues would divert management’s time from ongoing programs. 
54 

There may be amendments to laws 
Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing
operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation
thereof, could have a material adverse impact on Osisko and cause increases in
capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at
producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new
mining properties. 
Disputes may arise over the existence, validity,
enforceability and geographic extent of royalties, streams or other interests

Royalties, streams and other interests are subject to title and
other defects and contestation by operators of mining projects and holders of
mining rights, and these risks may be difficult to identify. While Osisko seeks
to confirm the existence, validity, enforceability and geographic extent of the
royalties, streams and other interests it holds, there can be no assurance that
disputes over these and other matters will not arise. 
The properties on which Osisko holds royalties, streams
or other interests or the companies in which Osisko has an equity interest may
be the subject of litigation 
Potential litigation may arise on a property on which Osisko
holds royalties, streams or other interests (for example litigation between
joint venture partners or original property owners) or with respect to a company
in which Osisko holds an equity interest. As a holder of royalties, streams or
other interests, Osisko will not generally have any influence on the litigation
nor will it generally have access to data. 
The registration of royalties, streams or other interests
may not protect Osisko’s interests 
The right to record or register royalties, streams or other
interests in various registries or mining recorders offices may not necessarily
provide any protection to Osisko. Accordingly, Osisko may be subject to risk
from third parties. 
Environmental risks and hazards 
Osisko and the companies in which Osisko has royalties, streams
or other interest are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions
in which they operate. These regulations mandate, among other things, the
maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also
set forth limitations on the general, transportation, storage and disposal of
solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner
that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and
penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of
proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and
their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future
changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Osisko’s
operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties which are unknown to Osisko at present and which have been caused by
previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Reclamation costs
are uncertain and planned expenditures estimated by management may differ from
the actual expenditures required. 
Foreign countries and regulatory requirements 
Osisko and the companies in which Osisko holds royalties,
 streams or other interests have investments in properties and projects located
 in foreign countries. The carrying values of these properties and the ability to
 advance development plans or bring the projects to production may be adversely
 affected by whatever political instability and legal and economic uncertainty
 might exist in such countries. These risks may limit or disrupt projects,
 restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contractual
 rights or the taking of property by nationalization, expropriation or other
 means without fair compensation. 
55 

There can be no assurance that industries which are deemed of
national or strategic importance in countries in which Osisko has assets,
including mineral exploration, production and development, will not be
nationalized. The risk exists that further government limitations, restrictions
or requirements, not presently foreseen, will be implemented. Changes in
policies intented to alter laws regulating the mining industry could have a
material adverse effect on Osisko. There can be no assurance that Osisko’s
assets in these countries will not be subject to nationalization, requisition or
confiscation, whether legitimate or not, by an authority or body. 
In addition, in the event of a dispute arising from foreign
operations, Osisko may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign
courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the
jurisdiction of courts in Canada. Osisko also may be hindered or prevented from
enforcing its rights with respect to a governmental instrumentality because of
the doctrine of sovereign immunity. It is not possible for Osisko to accurately
predict such developments or changes in laws or policy or to the extent to which
any such developments or changes may have a material adverse effect on Osisko’s
operations. 
Conflict of Interest Risks 
Some of Osisko’s directors and officers may have
conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural
resource companies 
Some of the persons who are directors and officers of Osisko
are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies
and these associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time.
As a result of these conflicts of interest, Osisko may miss the opportunity to
participate in certain transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on
Osisko’s financial position.
Merger and Acquisitions Risks 
Any mergers, acquisitions or joint ventures would be
accompanied by risks 
Osisko may evaluate from time to time opportunities to merge,
acquire and joint venture assets and businesses. Global landscape has changed
for mergers and acquisitions and there are risks associated to such transactions
due to liabilities and evaluations with the aggressive timelines of closing
transactions from increased competition. There is also a risk that the review
and examination process of a potential investment might be inadequate and cause
material negative outcomes. These acquisitions may be significant in size, may
change the scale of Osisko’s business and may expose it to new geographic,
political, operating, financial and geological risks. Osisko’s success in its
acquisition activities will depend on its ability to identify suitable
acquisition candidates and partners, acquire or joint venture them on acceptable
terms and integrate their operations successfully with those of Osisko. Any
acquisitions may be accompanied by risks, such as: (i) the difficulty of
assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies; (ii) the
potential disruption of Osisko’s ongoing business; (iii) the inability of
management to maximize the financial and strategic position of Osisko through
the successful incorporation of acquired assets and businesses or joint
ventures; (iv) additional expenses associated with amortization of acquired intangible assets; the
maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; (v) the
impairment of relationships with employees, customers and contractors as a
result of any integration of new management personnel; (vi) dilution of Osisko’s
present shareholders or of its interests in its subsidiaries or assets as a
result of the issuance of shares to pay for acquisitions or the decision to
grant interests to a joint venture partner; and (vii) the potential unknown
liabilities associated with acquired assets and businesses. There can be no
assurance that Osisko would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other
problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions or joint ventures.
There may be no right for shareholders to evaluate the merits or risks of any
future acquisition or joint venture undertaken except as required by applicable
laws and regulations. 
Mergers and acquisitions contemplated by Osisko may
require third party approvals 
Osisko may intend to enter into agreements to acquire
 royalties, streams or other interests that require the consent or approval of
 third parties in order to complete the contemplated acquisition. There can be no
 assurance that such third parties, which may include shareholders of the entity
 disposing of the interests, regulatory bodies or entities with an interest in
 the applicable property or others, will provide the required approval or consent
 in a timely manner, or at all. Failure to complete acquisitions may result in a
 material adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operation and
 financial condition. 
56 

Osisko faces competition and the mining industry is
competitive at all of its stages
Many companies and investors are engaged in the search for and
the acquisition of royalties, streams or other interests, and there is a limited
supply of desirable mineral interests. The mineral exploration business is
competitive in all phases. Many companies and investors are engaged in the
acquisition of royalties, streams or other interests, including pension funds,
private funds, mining companies, operators and large, established companies with
substantial financial resources, operational capabilities and long earnings
records. Osisko may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring interests in
natural resource properties, whether by way of royalties, streams or other form
of investment, as many competitors have greater financial resources and
technical staffs. There can be no assurance that Osisko will be able to compete
successfully against other companies and investors in acquiring interests in new
natural resource properties and royalties, streams or other interests. In
addition, Osisko may be unable to make acquisitions at acceptable valuations and
on terms it considers to be acceptable. Osisko’s inability to acquire additional
royalties, streams or other interests in mineral properties may result in a
material and adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operation and
financial condition. 
In addition, there is no assurance that a ready market will
exist for the sale of commercial quantities of metals. Factors beyond the
control of Osisko may affect the marketability of any substances discovered.
These factors include market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of natural
resource markets and processing equipment, government regulations, including
regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use,
importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact
effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of
these factors may result in Osisko not receiving any future payments related to
royalties, streams or other interests or losing value on its equity investments.

Fraud Risks 
Osisko is subject to potential fraud and
corruption 
Osisko is subject to risks related to potential to gain
benefits from improper transactions (purchasing, gold, payroll) and financial
reporting to hide operational deficiencies or enhance remuneration. Other risks
include the potential for fraud and corruption by suppliers, personnel or
government officials and which may implicate Osisko, compliance with applicable
anti-corruption laws, by virtue of Osisko operating in jurisdictions that may be
vulnerable to the possibility of bribery, collusion, kickbacks, theft, improper
commissions, facilitation payments, conflicts of interest and related party
transactions and Osisko’s possible failure to identify, manage and mitigate
instances of fraud, corruption, or violations of its Code of Ethics and
applicable regulatory requirements. 
MATERIAL MINERAL PROJECTS 
The Canadian Malartic Royalty 
Pursuant to the Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement, Osisko
 holds a real right in the Canadian Malartic Properties (and the associated ores,
 minerals and mineral resources and by-products thereof which may be extracted
 from the Canadian Malartic Properties) and Canadian Malartic GP has agreed to
 pay Osisko a 5% NSR royalty from production of metals, ores and other materials
 recovered from the Canadian Malartic Properties (the “Canadian Malartic
 Royalty”). The term of the Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement is
 perpetual.
57 

For a description of the Canadian Malartic Properties, see
“Schedule B - Technical Information underlying the Canadian Malartic
Properties”. 
Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, Osisko may elect
to receive payment of the Canadian Malartic Royalty for such fiscal year to the
extent relating to gold and silver as an in-kind credit. If Osisko has elected
to receive the in-kind royalty, where precious metals are shipped in the form of
dore, Osisko’s account shall be credited with 5% of the refined gold and 5% of
the refined silver credited as soon as practicable and in any event no later
than five (5) business days after the refined gold or refined silver is
credited, subject to further adjustment. Since 2014, Osisko has elected to
receive the Canadian Malartic Royalty in-kind. The Canadian Malartic Royalty is
payable quarterly and all payments pursuant to the Canadian Malartic Royalty to
be paid in cash must be paid in U.S. dollars. 
Osisko has the right to inspect the Canadian Malartic
Properties and to inspect and audit books and records upon 20 days’ prior notice
to Canadian Malartic GP. Canadian Malartic GP is required to deliver to Osisko
an annual forecast report. 
If Canadian Malartic GP intends to abandon any portion of the
Canadian Malartic Properties, Osisko can elect to have such portion conveyed to
it, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. 
Canadian Malartic GP is required to pay Osisko a $0.40 per
tonne milling fee in respect of ore milled at the Canadian Malartic Properties
after June 16, 2021 that is not produced from the Canadian Malartic Properties
provided no fee is payable in respect of any tonnes of ore milled in excess of
65,000 tpd. 
Osisko may assign all of its rights in the Canadian Malartic
Royalty without the prior consent of Canadian Malartic GP. Canadian Malartic GP
may not assign or otherwise convey the Canadian Malartic Properties unless
certain conditions are satisfied. 
A deed of hypothec was entered into in order to hypothecate the
Canadian Malartic Properties in favour of Osisko and securing payment of the
Canadian Malartic Royalty subject to certain terms and conditions. The hypothec
is first-ranking subject to, among other things, security existing at the time
of execution of the Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement. The Canadian Malartic
Royalty Agreement has been published at the Québec Public Register of Real and
Immovable Mining Rights. 
The Éléonore Royalty 
Pursuant to the terms of the Éléonore Royalty Agreement, Osisko
holds a perpetual sliding-scale production royalty calculated on the NSR from
all production from the Éléonore Property (the “Éléonore Royalty”).
For a description of the Éléonore Mine, see “Schedule C -
Technical Information underlying the Éléonore Mine”. 
The percentage applicable for gold is (a) set at 2.0% on the
first three million ounces of gold; (b) increases by 0.25% per million ounces
thereafter; (c) is subject to a 10% increase if the spot gold price is above
US$500 per ounce; and (d) will not be higher than 3.5%. 

 
 Royalty Percentage Relative to the Total
 Ounces of Gold Produced from the Éléonore Property 
 
 
 Royalty Percentage 
 Gold Ounces Produced from
 the Éléonore Property 
 
 
 2.0% 
 On the first three (3) million
 ounces 
 
 
 2.25% 
 On the cumulative ounces
 produced between 3 million ounces and 4 million ounces 
 
 
 + 0.25% 
 For every additional million
 ounces of gold produced above 4 million ounces 
 

58 

 

 
 Royalty Percentage Relative to the Price
 of Gold 
 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage less 10%
 of applicable Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold less than or
 equal to US$350 / ounce 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage less 5%
 of applicable Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold greater than
 US$350 / ounce but less than or equal to US$400 / ounce 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold greater than
 US$400 / ounce but less than or equal to US$450 / ounce 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage plus 5%
 of applicable Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold greater than
 US$450 / ounce but less than or equal to US$500 / ounce 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage plus 10%
 of applicable Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold greater than
 US$500 / ounce 

The aggregate production royalty in respect of all precious
metals other than gold is 2% NSR. The aggregate production royalty in respect of
other minerals is 2% NSR. 
All cash payments pursuant to the Éléonore Royalty Agreement
must be paid in U.S. dollars. Osisko may elect to receive payment of the
Éléonore Royalty on precious metals as an in-kind credit. Osisko has elected to
receive the Éléonore Royalty in-kind since 2015 and does not anticipate to
change its election to cash payments. 
Osisko may not assign all of its rights in the Éléonore Royalty
unless certain conditions are satisfied. 
A deed of hypothec was entered into hypothecating the Éléonore
Property (including the land, the buildings that are or will be erected thereon,
and the property that is or will be, by accession or otherwise, incorporated
into, united with, or attached or joined to the immovable) and securing payment
of the Éléonore Royalty, subject to certain terms and conditions. 
The Renard Stream 
Stornoway’s Renard Diamond Mine is Québec’s first and Canada’s
sixth producing diamond mine. It is located approximately 250 km north of the
Cree community of Mistissini and 350 km north of Chibougamau in the James Bay
region of north-central Québec. Construction on the project commenced on July
10, 2014, and commercial production was declared on January 1, 2017.
For a description of the Renard Diamond Mine, see “Schedule D -
Technical Information underlying the Renard Diamond Mine”. 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Renard
Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds: 

 
 The term of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds
 is until July 8, 2054, with automatic renewals for additional terms of 10
 years each, subject to the Renard Buyers' right to terminate; 
 
 Under the terms of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of
 Diamonds, FCDC sold a 20% undivided interest (in a proportion of 9.6% to Orion
 Stream I, 4% to CDPQ, 4% to BTO Shine L.P. and 2.4% to other purchasers) (the
 “Subject Diamond Interest”) in each Subject Diamond; 
 
 The Renard Buyers were required under the Renard Streaming Agreement for
 the Forward Sale of Diamonds to make certain up-front payments to FCDC,
 representing prepayment of a portion of the purchase price payable for the
 Subject Diamonds Interest, in an aggregate amount of the Renard Deposit,
 disbursed in three installments as follows: (a) a first installment of US$80
 million, which was paid on March 31, 2015; (b) a second installment of US$80
 million, which was paid on September 30, 2015; and (c) a third installment of
 US$90 million, which was paid on March 30, 2016. The Renard Deposit provides a
 partial offset against the purchase price for the Subject Diamonds Interest,
 as described below; 

59 

 
 The purchase price for the Subject Diamonds Interest in each Subject
 Diamond is: (a) until the Renard Deposit has been fully offset, equal to the
 Gross Proceeds payable by payment of the Per Carat Cash Price in cash, with
 any amount by which the Gross Proceeds exceeds the Per Carat Cash Price being
 offset against the Renard Deposit, and (b) once the Renard Deposit has been
 fully offset, equal to the Per Carat Cash Price; and 
 
 Marketing expenses associated with the sale of the Subject Diamonds
 Interest in each Subject Diamond are borne by the Renard Buyers; provided that
 such expenses do not exceed 3% of the Gross Proceeds from the sale of each
 Subject Diamond Interest in the Subject Diamonds. Such expenses are deducted
 from the Gross Proceeds transferred to the Renard Buyers upon the sale of each
 Subject Diamond. 
On October 2, 2018, Osisko announced that it has entered into
the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement with Stornoway in relation to the Renard
Stream. As part of the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement, Osisko, along with
the Renard Streamers, paid Stornoway the U.S. dollar equivalent of $45 million
in cash ($21.6 million attributable to Osisko) as an additional up-front deposit
to Stornoway.
The terms of the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement provide
that the Renard Streamers shall continue to hold a 20% undivided interest (9.6%
stream attributable to Osisko) in all diamonds produced from the Renard mining
property for the life of the mine (prior to the amendment, the stream was
applicable to all diamonds produced from the first five (5) project kimberlites
to be mined at Renard for the life of mine and the first 30 million carats from
the property overall). Upon the completion of a sale of diamonds, the Renard
Streamers will remit to Stornoway a cash transfer payment which shall be the
lesser of 40% of achieved sales price and US$40 per carat (prior to the
amendment, the cash transfer was a fixed amount of US$50 per carat escalating at
1% per annum). 
In addition, for the purpose of calculating stream remittances,
Stornoway shall separately sell any diamonds smaller than the +7 DTC sieve size
that are recovered in excess of the maximum agreed-upon proportion within a sale
of run of mine (ROM) diamonds (the excess small diamonds, or incidentals). In
this manner, Stornoway shall restrict the proportion of small diamonds contained
in a run of mine sale such that the Renard Streamers and Stornoway will be fully
aligned on upside price exposure with downside protection on price and product
mix. 
The Renard Stream Amendment is part of a series of financing
transactions with Stornoway’s lenders and key stakeholders that provide
Stornoway with greater financial and operational flexibility representing up to
$129 million in additional liquidity in the near term as the mine ramps up its
operations. 
The Mantos Stream 
On September 11, 2015, Mantos, as seller and TitheCo, as
 purchaser, entered into the Mantos Stream Agreement, that was subsequently
 amended and restated on March 9, 2016 and on July 31, 2017.
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Mantos
 Stream Agreement: 

 
 The term of the Mantos Stream Agreement will be for the life of mine; 
 
 Stream percentage, subject to reduction, of 100% of payable silver from the
 Mantos Blancos Mine until 19,300,000 ounces have been delivered, after which
 the stream percentage will be 30%; 
 
 The purchase price for silver under the Mantos Stream Agreement is the
 Mantos Silver Purchase Price for each ounce of refined silver sold and
 delivered and/or credited by Mantos to OBL; 
 
 In respect of any month, OBL may elect, on 30 days’ prior notice to Mantos,
 to reduce (a) the designated percentage of payable silver from 100% to 75%,
 and (b) the Mantos Silver Purchase Price to US$0; 

60 

 Provided that no less than 1,990,000 ounces of refined silver has been
 delivered/credited by Mantos to OBL, Mantos may elect to reduce the amount of
 refined silver to be delivered and sold to OBL by 50%, in which case Mantos
 shall make a cash payment of US$70 million to OBL; and 
 
 TitheCo (now OBL) made cash deposits in two installments, in the aggregate
 amount of US$82.5 in October 2015. 
DIVIDENDS 
Dividend Program and Dividend Payments 
On November 17, 2014, Osisko announced the initiation of a
quarterly dividend program. Since the initiation of the program, Osisko declared
dividends for the following quarters: 

 
 
 
 Dividend 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dividends Paid 
 
 
 Declaration
 Date 
 
 per Share 
 
 
 Record Date(i) 
 
 
 Payment Date(i) 
 
 
 or
 Payable 
 
 
 
 
 $
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
 
 
 Year 2014 
 
 0.03 
 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 1,551,000 
 
 
 Year 2015 
 
 0.13 
 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 12,229,000 
 
 
 Year 2016 
 
 0.16 
 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 17,037,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year 2017 
 
 0.18 
 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 n/a 
 
 
 24,275,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 February 16, 2018 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 March 30, 2018 
 
 
 April 16, 2018 
 
 
 7,811,000 
 
 
 May 3, 2018 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 June 29, 2018 
 
 
 July 16, 2018 
 
 
 7,811,000 
 
 
 August 2, 2018 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 September 28, 2018 
 
 
 October 15, 2018 
 
 
 7,812,000 
 
 
 November 6, 2018 
 
 0.05
 
 
 
 December 31, 2018 
 
 
 January 15, 2019 
 
 
 7,779,000 
 
 
 Year 2018 
 
 0.20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 31,213,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 February 20, 2019 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 March 29, 2019 
 
 
 April 15, 2019 
 
 
 tbd(ii) 
 

 
 
 (i) 
 
 Not applicable (“n/a”) for annual summaries.
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 To be determined (“tbd”) on March 29, 2019 based on the
 number of shares outstanding and the number of shares participating in the
 Dividend Reinvestment Plan on the record date.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
In 2015, Osisko implemented the Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The
 Dividend Reinvestment Plan allows Canadian shareholders and U.S. shareholders
 (commencing with the dividend paid on October 16, 2017 for U.S. shareholders) to
 reinvest their cash dividends into additional Osisko shares either purchased on
 the open market through the facilities of the TSX or the NYSE, or issued
 directly from treasury by Osisko, or acquired by a combination thereof. In the
 case of a treasury issuance, the price will be the weighted average price of the
 Osisko Shares on the TSX or the NYSE during the five (5) trading days
 immediately preceding the dividend payment date, less a discount, if any, of up
 to 5%, at Osisko’s sole election. No commissions, service charges or brokerage
 fees are payable by shareholders who elect to participate in the Dividend
 Reinvestment Plan. 
As at December 31, 2018, the holders of 29,627,597 Osisko
 Shares had elected to participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan,
 representing dividends payable of $1.5 million. During the year ended December
 31, 2018, Osisko issued 310,492 Osisko Shares under the Dividend Reinvestment
 Plan, at a discount rate of 3%. 
61 

DESCRIPTION OF CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Osisko Shares 
Osisko is authorized to issue an unlimited number of Osisko
Shares without nominal or par value.
Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to the Osisko
Preferred Shares issuable in series and to the terms of an amended and restated
shareholder rights plan dated May 4, 2017, the rights, privileges, conditions
and restrictions attaching to the Osisko Shares, as a class, are equal in all
respects and include the following rights. 
Dividends 
Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to any series
of Osisko Preferred Shares, the holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the
right to receive, if, as and when declared by the Osisko Board, any dividend on
such dates and for such amounts as the Osisko Board may from time to time
determine. 
Participation in case of Dissolution or Liquidation

Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to any series
of Osisko Preferred Shares, the holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the
right, upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Osisko, to receive the
remaining property of Osisko. 
Right to Vote 
The holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the right to one
(1) vote at any meeting of the shareholders of Osisko, except meetings at which
only holders of any series of Osisko Preferred Shares are entitled to vote. 
As of the date hereof, 155,141,744 Osisko Shares were issued
and outstanding.
Osisko Preferred Shares 
The rights and restrictions attached to the preferred shares of
Osisko issuable in series (the “Osisko Preferred Shares”) are as
follows. 
Issuance in Series 
The Osisko Preferred Shares may be issued in one or more series
 and subject as hereinafter provided and subject to the provisions of the QBCA,
 the Osisko Board shall determine, by resolution, before the issue of each
 series, the designation, rights and restrictions to be attached thereto,
 including, but without in any way limiting or restricting the generality of the
 foregoing: (a) the right, as the case may be, to receive dividends, the form of
 payment of dividends, the rate or amount or method of calculation of dividends,
 whether cumulative or non-cumulative, the date or dates and places of payment
 and the date or dates from which such dividends shall accrue or become payable;
 (b) the rights and/or obligations, if any, of Osisko or of the holders thereof
 with respect to the purchase or redemption of the Osisko Preferred Shares and
 the consideration for and the terms and conditions of any such purchase or
 redemption; (c) the conversion or exchange rights, if any, and the conditions
 attaching thereto; (d) the restrictions, if any, as to the payment of dividends
 on shares of Osisko ranking junior to the Osisko Preferred Shares; and (e) any
 other provisions deemed expedient by the directors, the whole subject to the
 issuance of a Certificate of Amendment setting forth the number and the
 designation, as well as the rights and restrictions to be attached to the Osisko
 Preferred Shares of such series. 
62 

Dividends 
The Osisko Preferred Shares shall, with respect to the payment
of dividends, be entitled to preference over any other class of shares of Osisko
ranking junior to the Osisko Preferred Shares, and no dividends shall at any
time be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any other shares of Osisko
ranking junior to the Osisko Preferred Shares, nor shall Osisko call for
redemption or purchase for cancellation any of the Osisko Preferred Shares
unless at the date of such declaration, payment, setting apart for payment or
call for redemption or purchase, as the case may be, all cumulative dividends up
to and including the dividend payment for the last completed period for which
such cumulative dividends shall be payable shall have been declared and paid or
set apart for payment in respect of each series of cumulative Osisko Preferred
Shares then issued and outstanding and the non-cumulative dividend payment for
the then current fiscal year and any declared and unpaid non-cumulative
dividends shall have been paid or set apart for payment in respect of each
series of non-cumulative Osisko Preferred Shares then issued and outstanding.

Liquidation or Dissolution 
In the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
Osisko or other distribution of assets of Osisko among shareholders for the
purpose of winding-up its affairs, the holders of the Osisko Preferred Shares
shall be entitled to receive, before any amount shall be paid to, or any
property or assets of Osisko distributed among the holders of the Osisko Shares
or of shares of any other class of shares of Osisko ranking junior to the Osisko
Preferred Shares, and to the extent provided for with respect to each series,
the amount of the consideration received by Osisko for such Osisko Preferred
Shares, such premiums, if any, as has been provided for with respect to such
series together with, in the case of cumulative Osisko Preferred Shares, all
unpaid accrued dividends (which for such purpose shall be calculated as if such
cumulative dividends were accruing from day to day for the period from the
latest of the following dates, namely (a) the date fixed by the Osisko Board at
the time of allotment and issue of such shares or if such date is not fixed, the
date of their allotment and issue, or (b) the date of expiration of the last
period for which cumulative dividends have been paid, up to and including the
date of distribution) and, in the case of non-cumulative Osisko Preferred
Shares, all declared and unpaid dividends. After payment to the holders of the
Osisko Preferred Shares of the amounts so payable to them, they shall not be
entitled to share in any further distribution of the property or assets of
Osisko. 
Equal Rank of All Series 
The Osisko Preferred Shares of each series shall rank pari
passu with the Osisko Preferred Shares of every other series with respect to
the payment of dividends, as the case may be, and the distribution of assets in
the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Osisko, whether
voluntary or involuntary, provided, however, that in the event of there being
insufficient assets to satisfy in full the repayment of all moneys owing to the holders of Osisko
Preferred Shares, such assets shall be applied rateably to the repayment of the
amount paid up on such Osisko Preferred Shares and, then, to the payment of all
unpaid accrued cumulative dividends, whether declared or not, and all declared
and unpaid non-cumulative dividends. 
Voting Rights 
Subject to the provisions of the QBCA and, except as otherwise
 expressly provided herein, the holders of any series of the Osisko Preferred
 Shares shall not, as such, have any voting rights for the election of directors
 or for any other purpose nor shall they be entitled to receive notice of or to
 attend shareholders’ meetings. 
Amendments 
As long as any of the Osisko Preferred Shares are outstanding,
 Osisko may not, except with the approval of the holders of the Osisko Preferred
 Shares hereinafter specified and after having complied with the relevant
 provisions of the QBCA, create any other shares ranking in priority to or pari passu with the Osisko Preferred Shares, voluntarily liquidate or
 dissolve Osisko or effect any reduction of capital involving a distribution of
 assets on other shares of its share capital or repeal, amend or otherwise alter
 any of the provisions relating to the Osisko Preferred Shares as a class. 
63 

Any approval of the holders of the Osisko Preferred Shares as
aforesaid shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given if contained in a
resolution adopted by a majority of not less than 2/3 of the votes cast by the
shareholders who voted in respect of that resolution at a meeting of the holders
of the Osisko Preferred Shares duly called and held for that purpose, at which
meeting such holders shall have one vote for each Osisko Preferred Share held by
them respectively, or in an instrument signed by all the holders of the then
outstanding Osisko Preferred Shares. 
If an amendment as hereinabove provided especially affects the
rights of the holders of Osisko Preferred Shares of any series in a manner or to
an extent different from that in or to which the rights of the holders of Osisko
Preferred Shares of any other series are affected, then such amendment shall, in
addition to being approved by the holders of the Osisko Preferred Shares voting
separately as a class, be approved by the holders of the Osisko Preferred Shares
of such series, voting separately as a series, and the provisions of this
paragraph shall apply, mutatis mutandis, with respect to the giving of
such approval. 
As of the date hereof, no Osisko Preferred Shares were issued
and outstanding. 
Warrants 
In connection with a $200 million bought deal private
placement, Osisko issued, on March 5, 2015, 5,480,000 common share purchase
warrants entitling the holder thereof to purchase one (1) Osisko Share at a
price of $36.50 per Osisko Share, until March 5, 2022. These warrants are listed
on the TSX under the ticker symbol “OR.WT”. 
As part of a $173 million bought deal public offering completed
on February 26, 2016, common share purchase warrants were issued at a price of
$19.08 for a period of 36 months following the closing date, namely having
expired on February 26, 2019 after market close. These warrants were listed on
the TSX under the ticker symbol “OR.WT.A”. 
Debentures 
On November 3, 2017, Osisko closed a “bought deal” offering of
Debentures in an aggregate principal amount of $300 million. 
The Debentures bear interest at a rate of 4.00% per annum,
payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31 each year, commencing on June
30, 2018. The Debentures will be convertible at the holder’s option into Osisko
Shares at a conversion price equal to $22.89 per Common Share
(representing a conversion rate of 43.6872 Osisko Shares per $1,000 principal
amount of Debentures). The Debentures will mature on December 31, 2022 and may
be redeemed by Osisko, in certain circumstances, on or after December 31, 2020.
The Debentures are listed and posted for trading on the TSX under the symbol
“OR.DB”. 
64 

MARKET FOR SECURITIES 
Trading Price and Volume 
Osisko Shares 
The Osisko Shares are currently listed on the TSX and on the
NYSE under the symbol “OR”. The following table sets forth the price range and
trading volume for the Osisko Shares on the TSX and the NYSE, for the periods
indicated. 

 
 
 
 
 TSX 
 
 
 
 
 
 NYSE 
 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (#) 
 
 (US$) 
 
 ($US) 
 
 (#) 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 15.17 
 
 13.55 
 
 11,682,734 
 
 12.10 
 
 10.90 
 
 13,702,923 
 
 February 
 14.08 
 
 12.00 
 
 10,550,537 
 
 11.45 
 
 9.51 
 
 14,528,834 
 
 March 
 13.11 
 
 12.18 
 
 7,721,860 
 
 10.17 
 
 9.38 
 
 14,054,479 
 
 April 
 12.91 
 
 11.90 
 
 6,215,136 
 
 10.30 
 
 9.31 
 
 10,114,238 
 
 May 
 13.76 
 
 12.33 
 
 7,534,736 
 
 10.79 
 
 9.56 
 
 8,980,606 
 
 June 
 13.38 
 
 12.17 
 
 4,475,269 
 
 10.32 
 
 9.14 
 
 11,315,527 
 
 July 
 12.82 
 
 12.30 
 
 4,557,785 
 
 9.77 
 
 9.34 
 
 9,649,030 
 
 August 
 12.37 
 
 10.27 
 
 5,665,333 
 
 9.51 
 
 7.85 
 
 13,362,333 
 
 September 
 10.37 
 
 9.49 
 
 8,782,717 
 
 7.92 
 
 7.29 
 
 14,194,490 
 
 October 
 10.96 
 
 9.66 
 
 7,722,717 
 
 8.43 
 
 7.45 
 
 12,154,613 
 
 November 
 10.73 
 
 9.27 
 
 5,459,790 
 
 8.21 
 
 7.00 
 
 11,020,576 
 
 December 
 11.99 
 
 9.35 
 
 9,057,799 
 
 8.90 
 
 7.09 
 
 15,081,603 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 12.95 
 
 11.29 
 
 10,407,364 
 
 9.855 
 
 8.50 
 
 9,712,735 
 
 February 
 15.13 
 
 12.60 
 
 8,164,972 
 
 11.515 
 
 9.55 
 
 10,142,602 
 
 March(1) 
 16.08 
 
 14.25 
 
 8,160,841 
 
 12.08 
 
 10.67 
 
 14,065,296

(1) Up to and including March 27, 2019.

The closing price of the Osisko Shares on the TSX on March 27,
2019 was $15.89. The closing price of the Osisko Shares on the NYSE on March 27,
2019 was US$11.85. 
Warrants 
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, warrants of
Osisko were listed on the TSX under the symbols OR.WT and OR.WT.A. The following
table sets forth the price range and trading volume for the warrants on the TSX,
for the periods indicated.
65 

 
 
 
 
 OR.WT 
 
 
 
 
 
 OR.WTA 
 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (#) 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (#) 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 2.40 
 
 2.06 
 
 36,000 
 
 1.46 
 
 0.95 
 
 153,530 
 
 February 
 2.20 
 
 1.75 
 
 30,983 
 
 1.05 
 
 0.53 
 
 188,689 
 
 March 
 1.73 
 
 1.50 
 
 23,460 
 
 0.75 
 
 0.48 
 
 84,263 
 
 April 
 1.45 
 
 1.25 
 
 10,400 
 
 0.63 
 
 0.48 
 
 105,459 
 
 May 
 1.45 
 
 1.26 
 
 42,008 
 
 0.69 
 
 0.50 
 
 181,576 
 
 June 
 1.29 
 
 1.06 
 
 23,940 
 
 0.61 
 
 0.35 
 
 74,620 
 
 July 
 1.20 
 
 1.06 
 
 17,350 
 
 0.40 
 
 0.27 
 
 27,020 
 
 August 
 1.13 
 
 0.89 
 
 51,365 
 
 0.32 
 
 0.10 
 
 19,419 
 
 September 
 0.75 
 
 0.61 
 
 14,418 
 
 0.10 
 
 0.05 
 
 40,558 
 
 October 
 0.69 
 
 0.60 
 
 8,592 
 
 0.11 
 
 0.03 
 
 37,297 
 
 November 
 0.59 
 
 0.50 
 
 18,600 
 
 0.03 
 
 0.02 
 
 45,788 
 
 December 
 0.49 
 
 0.34 
 
 70,660 
 
 0.02 
 
 0.005 
 
 280,382 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 0.45 
 
 0.37 
 
 26,350 
 
 0.05 
 
 0.005 
 
 618,419 
 
 February(1) 
 0.45 
 
 0.35 
 
 118,822 
 
 0.005 
 
 0.005 
 
 55,900 
 
 March(2) 
 0.94 
 
 0.43 
 
 231,570 
 
 - 
 
 - 
 
 -

 
 (1) 
 
 Up to and including February 26, 2019, date on which the
 warrants listed under OR.WTA expired.
 
 (2) 
 
 Up to and including March 25,
2019.
The closing price of the warrants “OR.WT” on the TSX on March
25, 2019 was $0.90. 
Debentures 
The Debentures are listed on the TSX under the symbol “OR.DB”
since November 3, 2017. The following table sets forth the price range and
trading volume for the Debentures on the TSX, for the periods indicated: 

 
 
 
 
 OR.DB 
 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 Low 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (C$) 
 
 (#) 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 105.00 
 
 102.00 
 
 130,580 
 
 February 
 103.50 
 
 99.50 
 
 176,520 
 
 March 
 101.00 
 
 98.50 
 
 80,140 
 
 April 
 102.75 
 
 99.00 
 
 8,160 
 
 May 
 100.50 
 
 99.10 
 
 47,310 
 
 June 
 100.50 
 
 100.00 
 
 54,070 
 
 July 
 100.75 
 
 99.99 
 
 102,030 
 
 August 
 100.25 
 
 98.55 
 
 71,090 
 
 September 
 99.50 
 
 98.01 
 
 23,020 
 
 October 
 99.99 
 
 98.00 
 
 29,550 
 
 November 
 99.25 
 
 96.00 
 
 39,480 
 
 December 
 99.00 
 
 97.25 
 
 25,410 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 100.50 
 
 97.76 
 
 27,440 
 
 February 
 102.90 
 
 99.75 
 
 4,920 
 
 March(1) 
 103.50 
 
 101.50 
 
 12,140

(1) Up to and including March 25, 2019. 
66 

The closing price
of the Debentures “OR.DB” on the TSX on March 25, 2019 was $103.00. 
Prior Sales - Securities Not Listed or Quoted on a
Marketplace 
The only securities of Osisko that are outstanding but not
listed or quoted on a marketplace are the RQ Debenture, the Osisko Options, the
Replacement Osisko Options the RSUs and the DSUs. 
RQ Debenture 
On February 12, 2016, Ressources Québec, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Investissement Québec, subscribed to the RQ Debenture. Ressources
Québec will be entitled, at its option, to convert the RQ Debenture into Osisko
Shares at a price of $19.08 per Osisko Share at any time during its term. 
Options
The following table sets forth the number of options granted
during the most recently completed financial year, the date of grant and the
exercise price thereof. 

 
 Date of Grant 
 Number of Options 
 Exercise Price Per Option 
 
 February 22, 2018 
 94,900 
 $12.35 
 
 May 7, 2018 
 747,000 
 $12.97 
 
 August 7, 2018 
 45,000 
 $11.92 
Restricted Share Units 
As of December 31, 2018, Osisko has granted a total of 848,759
Osisko RSUs pursuant to the RSU Plan and under which equity securities of Osisko
are authorized for issuance. The table below shows Osisko RSUs granted in 2018,
which have a three-year vesting period and provide the right to receive payment
in the form of Osisko Shares, cash or a combination of Osisko Shares and in
cash: 

 
 Date of Grant
 Number of OsiskoRSUs 
 Grant Price of OsiskoRSUs
 
 
 February 22, 2018 
 23,700 
 $12.35 
 
 February 22, 2018 (Bonus RSUs) 
 68,162 
 $14.52 
 
 May 7, 2018 
 361,100 
 $12.97 
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 
Name, Address, Occupation and Security Holdings 
The following table sets out the Osisko directors and officers,
together with their province or state and country of residence, positions and
offices held, principal occupations during the last five years, the years in
which they were first appointed as directors and/or officers of Osisko and the
number of Osisko Shares, Osisko RSUs, Osisko DSUs, Osisko Options, Warrants,
Debentures and Replacement Osisko Options beneficially owned, directly or
indirectly, or over which control or direction is exercised by them, as of the
date of this Annual Information Form.
67 

 
 Name and place ofresidence 
 Principal
 occupations during the last five (5) years(5) 
 Directorand/orOfficersince 
 Securities of Osiskobeneficially owned 
 
 Sean Roosen(4)Québec, CanadaChair
 and Chief ExecutiveOfficer 
 Chair and Chief Executive Officer
 of Osisko; prior to June 2014, President and Chief Executive Officer of
 Osisko Mining Corporation. 
 2014 
 428,278 Osisko Shares179,714 Osisko RSUs615,800 Osisko Options 
 
 Joanne Ferstman(1,3)Ontario, CanadaLead Director 
 Chartered Professional Accountant
 and Corporate Director; Prior to June 2012, President and Chief Executive
 Officer of Dundee Capital Markets Inc., an investment dealer; prior to
 January 2011, Vice-Chair and Head of Capital Markets of DundeeWealth Inc.,
 a wealth management company. 
 2014 
 19,500 Osisko Shares69,634 Osisko DSUs$100,000 OsiskoDebentures 
 
 Françoise Bertrand(3,4)Québec, CanadaDirector 
 Currently serves as chair of the
 boards of directors of Proaction International and Via Rail Canada. Former
 President and Chief Executive Officer of the Fédération des
 chambres de commerce du Québec (FCCQ) and director of numerous
 boards of profit and non-profit organizations; former Chair of Canadian
 Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC). 
 2014 
 1,200 Osisko Shares46,213 Osisko DSUs
 
 
 John F. Burzynski(4,5)Ontario, CanadaDirector 
 President and Chief Executive
 Officer of Osisko Mining; prior to August 2016, Senior Vice President, New
 Business Development of Osisko; prior to June 2014, Vice President,
 Business Development of Osisko Mining Corporation. 
 2014 
 17,294 Osisko Shares3,255 Osisko RSUs16,809 Osisko DSUs85,600 Osisko Options 
 
 Pierre D. Chenard(1,2,4)Québec, CanadaDirector 
 Vice President, Business
 Development and General Counsel, Aluminium at Rio Tinto. 
 2017 
 18,566 Osisko DSUs 
 
 Bryan A. CoatesQuébec, CanadaPresident 
 President of Osisko; prior to
 June 2014, Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Osisko
 Mining Corporation. 
 2014 
 128,219 Osisko Shares107,893 Osisko RSUs550,600 Osisko Options$708,500 OsiskoDebentures 
 
 Christopher C. Curfman(2,3)Illinois, United
 States ofAmericaDirector 
 Former Senior Vice President of
 Caterpillar Inc. and former President of Caterpillar Global Mining. 
 2016 
 5,500 Osisko Shares29,462 Osisko DSUs
 
 
 Joseph de la PlanteQuébec, CanadaVice
 President, CorporateDevelopment 
 Vice President, Corporate
 Development of Osisko; Senior Advisor, Investment and Corporate
 Development of Osisko Mining Corporation from November 2010 to June 2014;
 Analyst in the Global Metals & Mining Investment Banking Group at BMO
 Capital Markets prior to that. 
 2014 
 8,279 Osisko Shares54,253 Osisko RSUs282,300 Osisko Options$25,000 OsiskoDebentures 
 
 André Gaumond(4,5)Québec, CanadaDirector 
 While he retired from his
 executive position in November 2016, he remains a member of the Board of
 Directors; Senior Vice President, Northern Development of Osisko prior to
 November 2016; President and Chief Executive Officer of Virginia prior to
 February 2015. 
 2015 
 630,634 Osisko Shares8,469 Osisko RSUs16,809 Osisko DSUs90,900 Osisko Options$200,000 OsiskoDebentures 
 
 Pierre Labbé(1,2)Québec, CanadaDirector 
 Chief Financial Officer of IMV
 Inc.; from April 2015 to March 2017, Vice President, Chief Financial
 Officer and Secretary of Leddartech Inc.; from October 2013 to April 2015,
 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Québec Port Authority and
 prior to October 2013, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
 Medicago Inc. 
 2015 
 6,145 Osisko Shares36,389 Osisko DSUs14,524 ReplacementOsisko Options$25,000 OsiskoDebentures 
 
 André Le BelQuébec, Canada 
 Vice President, Legal Affairs and
 Corporate Secretary of Osisko; prior to June 2014, Vice President, Legal
 Affairs and 
 2015 
 40,024 Osisko Shares82,425 Osisko RSUs
 
68 

 
 Name and place of residence 
 Principal
 occupations during the last five (5) years(5) 
 Director and/or
 Officer since 
 Securities of Osisko
 beneficially owned 
 
 Vice President, Legal Affairs and Corporate
 Secretary 
 Corporate Secretary of Osisko
 Mining Corporation. 
 
 263,900 Osisko Options$25,000 OsiskoDebentures 
 
 Oskar LewnowskiNew York, United States ofAmericaDirector 
 Founder and Chief Investment
 Officer of Orion Resource Partners. 
 2017 
 19,680 Osisko DSUs 
 
 Luc LessardQuébec, CanadaSenior Vice
 President, Technical Services 
 Senior Vice President, Technical
 Services of Osisko; President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of
 Falco; prior to June 16, 2014, Chief Operating Officer of Canadian
 Malartic GP (owned jointly by Agnico and Yamana) and Chief Operating
 Officer and Senior Vice-President of Osisko Mining Corporation. 
 2015 
 29,760 Osisko Shares97,325 Osisko RSUs264,400 Osisko Options 
 
 Elif LévesqueQuébec, CanadaChief Financial
 Officer and Vice President, Finance 
 Chief Financial Officer and Vice
 President, Finance of Osisko; prior to June 16, 2014, Vice President and
 Controller of Osisko Mining Corporation. 
 2014 
 10,160 Osisko Shares90,501 Osisko RSUs414,200 Osisko Options$50,000 OsiskoDebentures 
 
 Charles E. Page(1, 3,5) Ontario, CanadaDirector 
 Corporate Director and
 Professional Geologist; Former director of Osisko Mining Corporation;
 President and Chief Executive Officer of Queenston Mining Inc. prior to
 its acquisition by Osisko Mining Corporation. 
 2014 
 55,215 Osisko Shares46,423 Osisko DSUs
 
 
 Frédéric RuelQuébec, CanadaVice President and
 Corporate Controller 
 Vice President, Corporate
 Controller of Osisko and Falco; from January 2015 to November 2016,
 Corporate Controller of Osisko; from May 2015 to November 2016, Corporate
 Controller of Falco; from January 2011 to June 2014, Director, Corporate
 Reporting of Osisko Mining Corporation and of Canadian Malartic GP from
 June 2014 to November 2014. 
 2016 
 5,779 Osisko Shares55,872 Osisko RSUs158,800 Osisko Options$50,000 OsiskoDebentures 
 
 François VézinaQuébec, CanadaVice President,
 Technical Services 
 Vice President, Technical
 Services of Falco and Osisko; Chief Operating Officer of Barkerville since
 October 2018. Prior to his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, he was
 Vice President, Technical Services; Technical Service Director of Osisko
 from May 2017 to May 2018 and Mine Director from April 2015 to April 2017;
 Mine Manager of the Canadian Malartic mine prior to April 2015 with
 Canadian Malartic GP and Osisko Mining Corporation. 
 2018 
 5,373 Osisko Shares30,183 Osisko RSUs21,500 Osisko Options 

 
 (1) 
 
 Member of the Osisko Audit Committee.
 
 (2) 
 
 Member of the Osisko Governance and Nomination
 Committee.
 
 (3) 
 
 Member of the Osisko Human Resources Committee.
 
 (4) 
 
 Member of the Sustainability Committee.
 
 (5) 
 
 Member of the Investment Committee.
 
 (6) 
 
 The information as to principal occupations has been
 furnished by each director and/or officer
individually.
Biographic Notes 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer 
Mr. Sean Roosen is Chair of the Osisko Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Osisko since June 2014. Prior to this, Mr. Roosen was the
President and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko Mining Corporation. He led the
transition of Osisko Mining Corporation from a junior exploration company to a
leading intermediate gold producer. He was responsible for leading the strategic
development of Osisko Mining Corporation and was instrumental in securing the necessary
financing to fund the development of the $1 billion Canadian Malartic mine. Mr.
Roosen is an active participant in the resource sector and in the formation of
new companies to explore for mineral deposits both in Canada and
internationally. During 2017, Mr. Roosen received an award from Mines and Money
Americas for best Chief Executive Officer in North America and was in addition
named in the “Top 20 Most Influential Individuals in Global Mining”. In prior
years, he has been recognized by several organizations for his entrepreneurial
successes and his leadership in innovative sustainability practices. Mr. Roosen
is a Supervisory Board member of EurAsia Resource Holdings AG, a European based
resource venture capital fund and a director of EurAsia Resource Value SE and is
a member of the board of directors of Condor Petroleum Inc. Mr. Roosen also
serves on the board of directors of: Barkerville (Chair), Osisko Mining (Chair)
and Victoria Gold Corp. as a representative of Osisko. Mr. Roosen is a graduate
of the Haileybury School of Mines. 
69 

Joanne Ferstman, CPA, CA, Independent Lead Director

Ms. Joanne Ferstman is a corporate director, who has been
serving on a number of public company boards. From 2013 to 2014, Ms. Ferstman
was a Director of Osisko Mining Corporation. Ms. Ferstman was until June 2012
the President and Chief Executive Officer of Dundee Capital Markets Inc., a full
service investment dealer with principal businesses that include investment
banking, institutional sales and trading and private client financial advisory.
She has also held several leadership positions within Dundee Corporation and
DundeeWealth Inc. over the last 18 years, primarily as Chief Financial Officer,
where she was responsible for strategic development, financial and regulatory
reporting and risk management.
Ms. Ferstman currently serves as Chair of the board of Dream
Unlimited Corp, including serving as Chair of the Audit Committee, member of the
Organization & Design Committee and member of the Leaders & Mentors
Committee. She also serves as a director of Cogeco Communications Inc.,
including serving as Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Strategic
Opportunities Committee. In August 2018 she was appointed to the board of the
directors of ATS Automation Tooling Systems Inc. and currently serves as a
member of its Audit Committee and serves as a member of the Governance
Committee. She was formerly a director of Aimia Inc. (June 2008 to June 2017),
Excellon Resources Inc. (April 2013 to February 2015) and Dream Office REIT
(June 2003 to May 2018). Ms. Ferstman holds a Bachelor of Commerce and a
Graduate degree in Public Accountancy from McGill University and is a Chartered
Professional Accountant. 
Françoise Bertrand, O.C., C.Q., Independent Director

Ms. Françoise Bertrand was appointed to the Board of Directors
of Osisko in November 2014. In 2017, she was appointed as lead of Via Rail
Canada’s board of directors and as Chair of the board of directors of Proaction
International. She currently serves as an Officer of the Order of Canada, Ms.
Bertrand was formerly the President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Fédération des chambres de commerce du Québec (FCCQ). She sits on
numerous boards of directors of profit and non-profit organizations, including
Valeurs mobilières Desjardins and Concordia University. Ms. Bertrand was also a
former Chair of Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission
(CRTC). Ms. Bertrand was recently nominated to receive the ICD Fellowship Award
at the ICD National Conference to be held in June 2019. 
Ms. Bertrand holds a Bachelor of Arts - Major in Sociology from
Université de Montréal and a Master’s degree in Environmental Studies from York
University. She is a graduate from the Directors Education Program sponsored by
the Institute of Directors of Canada and the Rotman School of Management -
McGill. She is also a Chevalier of l’Ordre national du Québec. 
John F. Burzynski, M.Sc., P.Geo., Director 
Mr. John F. Burzynski has been a Director of Osisko since June
2014. He was also Senior Vice President, New Business Development of Osisko from
June 2014 to August 2016. He is Director, President and Chief Executive Officer
of Osisko Mining since August 2015. From 2004 to 2014, Mr. Burzynski was the
Vice President, Business Development of Osisko Mining Corporation. Mr. Burzynski
has over 25 years of experience as a professional geologist on
international mining and development projects. From 2011 to 2016, he served on
the board of directors of Condor Petroleum Inc. and served on the board of
Strongbow Exploration Inc. from September 2015 to October 2018. He currently
serves on the boards of directors of Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd., Osisko Metals
Incorporated and Major Drilling Group International Inc. Mr. Burzynski is also a
founding member of EurAsia Resource Holdings AG, a European based resource
venture capital fund. Mr. Burzynski holds a Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree
in geology from Mount Allison University, and a Master of Science degree in
exploration and mineral economics from Queen’s University. He is a registered
P.Geo. in the province of Québec. 
70 

Pierre D. Chenard, LL.B., Director 
Mr. Pierre D. Chenard has been Vice President, Business
Development and General Counsel, Aluminium at Rio Tinto since 2011. Mr. Chenard
has held progressive roles in both the corporate development and legal areas,
including General Counsel, Rio Tinto Global Aluminium and Canada, Vice President
and General Counsel at Alcan Inc. and Vice President and Head of Corporate
Development at Cambior Inc. Mr. Chenard was appointed to the Osisko Board in
accordance with an investment agreement entered into with the CDPQ. Mr. Chenard
earned Civil and Common Law degrees from McGill University and has been a member
of the Quebec Bar since 1984. 
Bryan A. Coates, CPA, CA, ICD.D, President 
Mr. Bryan A. Coates has been President of Osisko since June
2014. From 2007 to 2014, he was the Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
Officer of Osisko Mining Corporation. Mr. Coates was responsible for all
activities related to financing, financial reporting, marketing relating to the
gold industry, risk management and government relations. Mr. Coates has more
than 30 years of progressive experience within the international and Canadian
mining industry. Before joining Osisko, he was Chief Financial Officer of
IAMGOLD Corporation, Cambior Inc., and Compañia Minera Antamina. Mr. Coates
serves on the board of directors of Falco, Alio Gold Inc. and of Golden Queen
Mining Co. Ltd. Mr. Coates holds an Honours Bachelor of Commerce from Laurentian
University, is a member of the Chartered Professional Accountants of Ontario and
obtained the ICD.D designation from the Institute of Corporate Directors. 
Christopher C. Curfman, B.Sc., Independent Director

Mr. Christopher C. Curfman was elected to the Board of
Directors of Osisko in May 2016. Mr. Curfman is a retired senior executive of
Caterpillar Inc., one of the world’s largest mobile equipment suppliers to the
mining industry. During his 21-year career with Caterpillar, Mr. Curfman has
held several progressive positions in Asia, Australia and USA, including Senior
Vice President of Caterpillar and President of Caterpillar Global Mining from
2011 to his retirement at the end of 2015. Mr. Curfman also held senior
positions with Deere & Company prior to joining Caterpillar. He has
extensive international experience and a customer focused legacy at Caterpillar.
His global leadership was key to Caterpillar’s success in the mining industry.
He also served as a board member at various organisations, including the
Canadian Institute of Mining, the National Mining Association, the World Coal
Association and several universities. 
Mr. Curfman holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Education
from Northwestern University and has completed certificate programs in
accounting and finance from the Wharton School of Business, University of
Pennsylvania in 1991, a three-year executive program from Louisiana State
University in 1997 and the executive program of Stanford Graduate School of
Business in 2002. He was also awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Mining
Engineering from the University Missouri-Rolla in 2013. 
Joseph de la Plante, B. Eng., Vice President, Corporate
Development 
Mr. Joseph de la Plante has been Vice President, Corporate
Development of Osisko since June 2014. Prior to this, Mr. de la Plante held the
position of Senior Advisor, Investment and Corporate Development of Osisko
Mining Corporation since November 2010, where he played a key role in the
company’s investor relations and corporate development efforts, including
certain aspects of the company’s long-term financial planning. Before joining Osisko in 2010, he was
an Analyst in BMO Capital Markets’ Global Metals & Mining Investment Banking
Group in Toronto, where he worked in an advisory role on merger and acquisition
mandates as well as equity and debt offerings for various producing and
development stage gold companies. He currently serves on the board of directors
of Aquila Resources Inc. and the Québec Mineral Exploration Association. Mr. de
la Plante holds a Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering from McGill University. 
71 

André Gaumond, M.Sc. Eng., Director
Mr. André Gaumond was Senior Vice President, Northern
Development and Director of Osisko until he retired from his executive position
in November 2016. A geological engineer by training, Mr. Gaumond has been
recognized by several organizations for his entrepreneurial and geological
achievements. Mr. Gaumond has been the founder and Chief Executive Officer of
Virginia Gold Mines Inc., which discovered the Éléonore deposit, and was later
sold to Goldcorp Inc. He continued his geological work in the James Bay area
through Virginia which had retained a royalty on the Éléonore Property, and
concluded business combination with Osisko in February 2015. He has extensive
experience in the strategic development, financing and execution of search
programs for new mineral deposits. He has also been recognized for his
leadership role in various sustainability initiatives, including the recognition
for the creation of Fonds Restor-Action Nunavik. Mr. Gaumond was a
nominee to Osisko Board by Virginia as part of the Osisko-Virginia business
combination. He currently serves as on the board of directors of Altius Minerals
Corporation, Harfang Exploration Inc. and Junex Inc. 
Mr. Gaumond holds a Bachelor of Geological Engineering from
Université Laval and a Master degree in Geological Engineering from
École Polytechnique. He is a member of Ordre des géologues du
Québec and of Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec. 
Pierre Labbé, CPA, CA, ICD.D, Independent Director

Mr. Pierre Labbé is Chief Financial Officer of IMV
Inc. and was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Leddartech Inc. from
April 2015 to March 2017. He has more than 25 years of progressive financial
leadership roles in various industries. He was Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Québec Port Authority (October 2013 to April 2015), and
has experience in the resource sector, having served as Chief Financial Officer
of Plexmar Resources (May 2007 to November 2012), Sequoia Minerals (December
2003 to June 2004), and Mazarin Inc. (December 2002 to December 2003). Mr.
Labbé, in his role as senior financial officer, has participated in the
development of strategic plans and in mergers and acquisitions (over $1 billion
in transactions).
Mr. Labbé holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration
and a license in accounting from Université Laval, Québec City. He is a member of
Ordre des comptables professionnels agréés du Québec, the Chartered
Professional Accountants of Canada and the Institute of Corporate Directors.

André Le Bel, LL.B., B.Sc.A, ICD.D, Vice President, Legal
Affairs and Corporate Secretary 
Mr. André Le Bel has been appointed Vice President, Legal
Affairs and Corporate Secretary of Osisko on February 17, 2015. From November
2007 to June 2014, Mr. Le Bel was Vice President, Legal Affairs and Corporate
Secretary of Osisko Mining Corporation. Mr. Le Bel was Vice President Legal
affairs with IAMGOLD Corporation from November 2006 to October 2007 and before
November 2006, Mr. Le Bel was Senior Legal Counsel and Assistant Corporate
Secretary of Cambior Inc. Mr. Le Bel was a director of RedQuest Capital Corp.
until June 2017 and currently serves on the board of directors of Komet
Resources Inc., listed on the TSX Venture Exchange. Mr. Le Bel was Vice
President, Legal Affairs and Corporate Secretary of NioGold from March 20, 2015
to March 11, 2016 and Corporate Secretary of Falco from November 24, 2015 to
November 22, 2016. Since that date, he is Vice President, Legal Affairs and
Corporate Secretary of Falco. Mr. Le Bel was also a director and a member of the
audit committee of Threegold Resources Inc. from May 2011 to June 2013. Mr. Le
Bel obtained a Bachelor of Applied Science from Université Laval and a Bachelor
of Law from Sherbrooke University. He is a member of the Québec Bar and has
recently obtained the ICD.D designation from the Institute of Corporate
Directors. 
72 

Oskar Lewnowski, BS/BA, MBA, Director 
Mr. Oskar Lewnowski is the founder and Chief Investment Officer
of Orion Resource Partners. Prior to Orion, Mr. Lewnowski was a founding partner
of the Red Kite Group and the Chief Investment Officer of the mine finance
business. Before this, Mr. Lewnowski was a Director for Corporate Development at
Varomet Ltd, a metals processor and merchant banking firm. While at Varomet, he
was responsible for seven acquisitions and divestitures and business operations
(offtake agreements, mining and processing). He was also responsible for
structuring metal offtake agreements and other physical market transactions.
Before this, Mr. Lewnowski was a Vice President for Credit Suisse First Boston
in London, where he was responsible for preparing growth companies for public
distribution of their securities. Until 1993, he held various positions in
trading as well as mergers and acquisitions at Deutsche Bank both in New York
and Frankfurt culminating in his founding membership of the Deutsche Capital
Markets Division.
Mr. Lewnowski was appointed to the Osisko Board in connection
with the Orion Transaction. 
Luc Lessard, Eng., Senior Vice President, Technical
Services 
Mr. Luc Lessard is a mining engineer with more than 30 years of
experience designing, building and operating mines. He is President, Chief
Executive Officer and Director of Falco. He was previously Chief Operating
Officer of Canadian Malartic GP (owned jointly by Agnico and Yamana), and prior
to that was the Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President of Engineering
and Construction for Osisko Mining Corporation where he was responsible for the
design, construction and commissioning of the Canadian Malartic gold mine.
During his career, Mr. Lessard has worked on many open pit and underground mine
builds and prior to Osisko, Mr. Lessard was Vice President of Engineering and
Construction for IAMGOLD Corporation and General Manager, Projects for Cambior
Inc. From July 2014 to May 2016, he served on the boards of directors of Alio
Gold Inc. (July 2014 to May 2016) and Highland (November 2015 to February 2019).
Mr. Lessard was Chief Operating Officer of Barkerville until October 2018 and
currently serves on the board of directors of Osisko Metals Incorporated and
Nighthawk Gold Corp. Mr. Lessard holds a B.Sc. Mining Engineering from
Université Laval and he is a member of l’Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec.

Elif Lévesque, CPA, CGA, MBA, ICD.D, Chief Financial
Officer and Vice President Finance 
Ms. Elif Lévesque is the Chief Financial Officer and Vice
President Finance of Osisko since June 2014. Prior to this, Ms. Lévesque was
Vice President and Controller of Osisko Mining Corporation and has contributed
to the development of the financial reporting and planning functions at Osisko
since 2008. Ms. Lévesque has over 15 years of experience with leading Canadian
intermediate gold producers (Cambior Inc. 2002-2006 and IAMGOLD Corporation
2006-2008). She currently serves on the board of directors of TerraX Minerals
Inc. She is a member of the Ordre des Comptables Professionnels Agréés du
Québec, holds an MBA from Clark University, Massachusetts, USA and has
recently obtained the ICD.D designation from the Institute of Corporate
Directors.
Charles E. Page, M.Sc., P.Geo., Director 
Mr. Charles E. Page is a Professional Geologist and has more
than 40 years of experience in the mineral industry. During his career, Mr. Page
has held progressive leadership roles in developing strategies to explore,
finance and develop mineral properties in Canada and internationally. Mr. Page
worked at Queenston Mining Inc. in various capacities, including President and
Chief Executive Officer, from 1990 to its sale to Osisko Mining Corporation in
2012. Mr. Page also serves on the board of directors of Unigold Inc. and is
Chair of the board of directors of Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd. Mr. Page holds a
Bachelor of Science degree in Geological Science from Brock University and a
Master of Science degree in Earth Science from the University of Waterloo. He is
a Professional Geologist registered in the province of Ontario and Saskatchewan
and is also a Fellow of the Geological Association of Canada. 
73 

Frédéric Ruel, CPA, CA, Vice President, Corporate
Controller 
Mr. Frédéric Ruel was appointed as Vice President, Corporate
Controller of Osisko on November 9, 2016. Frédéric Ruel has over 15 years of
experience in financial reporting and has been involved in the mining industry
for over 10 years. Prior to joining Osisko, he held the position of Director,
Corporate Reporting for Canadian Malartic GP, Osisko Mining Corporation and
Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines. Mr. Ruel was Vice President, Corporate
Controller of Falco from November 2016 to July 2017 and Chief Financial Officer
of NioGold Mining Corporation from March 2015 to March 2016. Mr. Ruel began his
career as an auditor in a premier Canadian accounting firm where he worked for
seven (7) years. He is a member of the Ordre des comptables professionnels
agréés du Québec and holds a Master in Accounting from Sherbrooke
University.
François Vézina, Eng., Vice President, Technical Services

Mr. François Vézina is a Mining Engineer with over 18 years of
experience in mining and has extensive experience in open pit and underground
operations in Canada, Mexico and Finland. Mr. Vézina was Technical Service
Manager for Agnico-Eagle Mines Limited and was responsible for overseeing the
completion of the feasibility studies of LaRonde II, Pinos Altos and Kittilä.
Mr. Vézina participated in the construction and commissioning of Pinos Altos as
Mine Development Manager and Kittilä as Mine Operations Manager before joining
Osisko Mining Corporation and participating as Mine Manager in the construction
of the Canadian Malartic mine. He served for over 5 years as Mine Operations
Manager at the Canadian Malartic mine. In October 2018, he was appointed as Chief
Operating Officer of Barkerville. Mr. Vézina is a specialist in mine operation
optimization and is recognized for innovative mining techniques and optimization
of feasibility studies. Mr. Vézina holds a Bachelor degree in Mining Engineering
and a Master in Business Administration (MBA). He is a registered Engineer
(Eng.) in Quebec and (P.Eng.) in Ontario.
The directors of Osisko will be elected annually at each annual
general meeting of the Osisko Shareholders and will hold office until the next
annual general meeting unless a director’s office is earlier vacated in
accordance with the articles of Osisko or until his or her successor is duly
appointed or elected.
As at the date of this Annual Information Form, all of the
directors and officers, as a group, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, or
exercise control or direction over 1,391,360 Osisko Shares, representing
approximately 0.90% of the issued and outstanding Osisko Shares. 
Cease Trade Orders, Bankruptcies, Penalties or Sanctions

Corporate Cease Trade Orders 
As at the date of this Annual Information Form, no current
director or executive officer of Osisko is, or within the ten years prior to the
date of this Annual Information Form has been, a director, chief executive
officer or chief financial officer of any company (including Osisko), that:

 
 
 (a) 
 
 was subject to a cease trade order (including any
 management cease trade order which applied to directors or executive
 officers of a company, whether or not the person is named in the order),
 an order similar to a cease trade order, or an order that denied the
 relevant company access to any exemption under securities legislation,
 that was in effect for a period of more than 30 consecutive days (an
 “Order”) while that person was acting in that capacity;
or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 was subject to an Order that was issued after the current
 director or executive officer ceased to be a director, chief executive
 officer or chief financial officer and which resulted from an event that
 occurred while that person was acting in the capacity as director, chief
 executive officer or chief financial officer.
74 

Bankruptcy 
To the knowledge of Osisko, as at the date of this Annual
Information Form, no current director, executive officer, or shareholder holding
a sufficient number of securities of Osisko to affect materially the control of
Osisko is, or within the ten years prior to the date of this Annual Information
Form has: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 been a director or executive officer of any company
 (including Osisko) that, while that person was acting in that capacity, or
 within a year of that person ceasing to act in that capacity, became
 bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation relating to bankruptcy or
 insolvency or was subject to or instituted any proceedings, arrangement or
 compromise with creditors or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee
 appointed to hold its assets; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 become bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation
 relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, or become subject to or instituted
 any proceedings, arrangement or compromise with creditors, or had a
 receiver manager or trustee appointed to hold the assets of the current or
 proposed director, executive officer or
shareholder.
Penalties and Sanctions 
To the knowledge of Osisko, as at the date of this Annual
Information Form, no current director, executive officer, or shareholder holding
a sufficient number of securities of Osisko to affect materially the control of
Osisko has been subject to any penalties or sanctions imposed by a court
relating to securities legislation or by a securities regulatory authority or
has entered into a settlement agreement with a securities regulatory authority
or any other penalties or sanctions imposed by a court or regulatory body that
would likely be considered important to a reasonable investor in making an
investment decision.
Conflicts of Interest 
Certain of the directors and officers of Osisko will not be
devoting all of their time to the affairs of Osisko. Certain of the directors
and officers of Osisko are directors and officers of other companies, some of
which are in the same business as Osisko. See “Risk Factors”. 
The directors and officers of Osisko are required by law to act
in the best interests of Osisko. They have the same obligations to the other
companies in respect of which they act as directors and officers. Any decision
made by any of such officers or directors involving Osisko will be made in
accordance with their duties and obligations under the applicable laws of
Canada. 
As part of its business model and in connection with its
investments made in various other companies, either by acquiring equity
interests, purchasing royalties, streams or other interests or options thereon
or otherwise, Osisko generally expects from its directors and officers to be
actively involved within such investee companies, which may include occupying
seats on their board of directors. Osisko acknowledges that a director or an
officer serving on too many public boards of directors might be “overboarded”.
Consequently, all directors and officers of Osisko must submit to the Governance
and Nomination Committee any offer to join an outside board of directors in
order to ensure that any additional directorship would not impair the ability to
adequately fulfill the responsibilities assigned to the directors and officers
of the Corporation. 
As a general guideline, the Governance and Nomination Committee
of Osisko will consider that a director or officer of Osisko should be regarded
as “overboarded” if he or she: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 has attended fewer than 75% of Osisko’s board and
 committee meetings held within the past year without a valid reason for
 the absences;
and 
75 

 
 
 (b) 
 
 

 
 
 (i) 
 
 is the President or Chief Executive Officer of Osisko, he
 or she sits on more than two (2) outside public company board, in addition
 to Osisko; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 if not the President or Chief Executive Officer of
 Osisko, sits on more than five (5) public company boards, in addition to
 Osisko.
In determining what is an “outside public company board”, the
Governance and Nomination Committee specifically excludes investee companies for
the reason that becoming a director of such companies is crucial in order to
oversee and supervise Osisko’s investment in such investee companies. This
representation allows Osisko to protect its shareholders’ interests.
Furthermore, these investee companies are mostly junior exploration companies
which only hold few board meetings each year. 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND REGULATORY ACTIONS 
Legal Proceedings 
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 and as of the
date hereof, there have been and are no material legal proceedings outstanding,
threatened or pending, by or against Osisko or to which Osisko is a party or to
which any of Osisko’s property is subject, nor to Osisko’s knowledge are any
such legal proceedings contemplated, and which could become material to
Osisko.
Regulatory Actions 
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 and as of the
date hereof, there have been no penalties or sanctions imposed against Osisko
(a) by a court relating to securities legislation or by a securities regulatory
authority or (b) by a court or regulatory body that would likely be considered
important to a reasonable investor making an investment decision in Osisko.
Osisko has not entered into any settlement agreements with a court relating to
securities legislation or with a securities regulatory authority during the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 and as of the date hereof. 
INTEREST OF MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS

Within the three (3) most recently completed financial years or
during the current financial year, no director or executive officer of Osisko,
or shareholder who beneficially owns, or controls or directs, directly or
indirectly, more than 10% of the outstanding Osisko Shares, or any known
associates or affiliates of such persons, has or has had any material interest,
direct or indirect, in any transaction or in any proposed transaction that has
materially affected or is reasonably expected to materially affect Osisko. 
TRANSFER AGENTS AND REGISTRARS 
The transfer agent and registrar for the Osisko Shares is AST
Trust Company (Canada), which is located at 2001 University, Suite 1600,
Montreal, Québec, Canada H3A 2A6. 
MATERIAL CONTRACTS 
The following are the material contracts entered into by Osisko
or its subsidiaries: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 the Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 the Éléonore Royalty Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 the RQ Subscription Agreement;
76 

 
 
 (d) 
 
 the 2016 Warrant Indenture;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 the Orion Acquisition Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 a subscription agreement dated June 4, 2017 between Fonds
 FTQ and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 a subscription agreement dated June 4, 2017 between CDP
 Investissements Inc. and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 a voting support agreement dated July 31, 2017 between
 Betelgeuse LLC and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 a shareholder participation agreement dated July 31, 2017
 between Betelgeuse LLC and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) 
 
 a shareholder rights agreement dated July 31, 2017
 between CDP Investissements Inc. and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) 
 
 the 2017 Underwriting Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) 
 
 a debenture indenture dated November 3, 2017 between
 Osisko and AST Trust Company (Canada), as debenture trustee, pursuant to
 which the Debentures were created and issued and by which they are
 governed; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (m) 
 
 the 2017 Credit Agreement.
INTERESTS OF EXPERTS 
Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P. Geo, is named in this Annual
Information Form as having reviewed and approved certain scientific and
technical information as set out in this Annual Information Form. 
As of the date of this Annual Information Form, Mr. Guy
Desharnais, Ph.D., P. Geo, beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, less than
1% of Osisko’s outstanding securities including the securities of Osisko’s
associate or affiliate entities. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, a partnership of Chartered
Professional Accountants, the independent auditor of Osisko, has advised that it
is independent with respect to Osisko within the meaning of the Code of ethics of chartered professional accountants
(Québec) and has complied with the SEC’s rules on auditor independence and
Rule 3520 Auditor Independence of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board.
Other than as described above, none of the aforementioned
persons or companies, nor any director, officer or employee of any of the
aforementioned persons or companies is, or is expected to be elected, appointed
or employed as, a director, officer or employee of Osisko or of any associate or
affiliate of Osisko. 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Additional information relating to Osisko, which is not and
shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in this Annual Information
Form, is available electronically on SEDAR at www.sedar.com, on EDGAR at www.sec.gov and on its website at www.osiskogr.com. 
Additional information, which is not and shall not be deemed to
be incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form, including
directors’ and officers’ remuneration and indebtedness, principal holders of
Osisko’s securities and securities authorized for issuance under equity
compensation plans, is contained in Osisko’s management information circular for
its annual and special meeting of shareholders held on May 3, 2018. For information relating to corporate
governance related matters, please see “Statement of Corporate Governance
Practices” in such circular. 
77 

Additional financial information, which is not and shall not be
deemed to be incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form, is
provided in Osisko’s financial statements and management discussion and analysis
for its most recently completed financial year. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
Description of the Audit Committee 
The Osisko Audit Committee assists the Osisko Board in
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to the following: (i) in
its oversight of Osisko’s accounting and financial reporting principles and
policies and internal audit controls and procedures; (ii) in its oversight of
the integrity and transparency of Osisko’s financial statements and the
independent audit thereof; (iii) in selecting, evaluating and, where deemed
appropriate, replacing the external auditor; (iv) in evaluating the independence
of the external auditor; (v) in its oversight of Osisko’s risk identification,
assessment and management program; and (vi) in Osisko’s compliance with legal
and regulatory requirements in respect of the above. The Osisko Board has
adopted the Osisko Audit Committee Charter, a copy of which is attached as
Schedule “A”, mandating the role of the Osisko Audit Committee in supporting the
Osisko Board in meeting its responsibilities to Osisko Shareholders. 
Audit Committee Members 
As of the date of this Annual Information Form, the Osisko
Audit Committee is comprised of four (4) members, all of whom are independent
directors of Osisko, namely: Ms. Joanne Ferstman (Chair), Mr. Pierre Labbé, Mr.
Pierre D. Chenard and Mr. Charles E. Page. Ms. Ferstman (Chair) is an “audit
committee financial expert” (as such term is defined in paragraph 8(b) of
General Instruction B to Form 40-F under the U.S. Exchange Act). 
Relevant Education and Experience 
Joanne Ferstman
Ms. Ferstman (Chair) is a corporate director, sitting on a
number of public company boards. From 2013 to 2014, Ms. Ferstman was a Director
of Osisko Mining Corporation. Ms. Ferstman was until June 2012 the President and
Chief Executive Officer of Dundee Capital Markets Inc., a full service
investment dealer with principal businesses that include investment banking,
institutional sales and trading and private client financial advisory. Prior to
taking this position on January 31, 2011, Ms. Ferstman was Vice-Chair and Head
of Capital Markets of DundeeWealth Inc., a diversified wealth management public
company that managed and advised over $75 billion of assets under management and
administration, including the Dynamic Funds family, at the time it was sold to
the Bank of Nova Scotia in early 2011. Prior to 2009, Ms. Ferstman was Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DundeeWealth Inc. and Executive
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary of Dundee
Corporation. In these senior financial roles, Ms. Ferstman was intimately
involved in all corporate strategy, including acquisitions and financings, and
had responsibility for all public financial reporting. Additionally, Ms.
Ferstman was regularly Dundee’s nominee on investee company boards and audit
committees in both the resources and real estate sectors. 
Over the past 18 years, Ms. Ferstman has held a variety of
executive positions with the Dundee group of companies until her retirement in
June 2012. Prior to joining the Dundee group of companies, Ms. Ferstman spent
five years at a major international accounting firm. She served on the board of
directors of Aimia Inc. from June 25, 2008 to June 14, 2017. Ms. Ferstman
currently serves as Chair of the board of Dream Unlimited Corp, including
serving as Chair of the Audit Committee, member of the Organization & Design
Committee and member of the Leaders & Mentors Committee. She also serves as
a director of Cogeco Communications Inc., including serving as
Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Strategic Opportunities
Committee. In August 2018 she was appointed to the board of the directors of ATS
Automation Tooling Systems Inc. and currently serves as a member of its Audit
Committee and serves as a member of the Governance Committee. Ms. Ferstman holds
a Bachelor of Commerce and a Graduate 
78 

Ms. Ferstman is considered to be independent of Osisko and is
 financially literate, within the meaning of NI 52-110 and under the U.S.
Exchange Act and NYSE rules. 
Pierre Labbé 
Mr. Labbé was appointed to the Board of Directors of Osisko in
February 2015. Prior to this, Mr. Labbé had been a Director of Virginia since
April 2008 and was the Chairman of Virginia’s Audit Committee. Mr. Labbé
currently serves as the Chief Financial Officer of IMV Inc. and has served as
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of Leddartech Inc. from
April 2015 to March 2017. He was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Québec Port Authority from October 2013 to April 2015. From July 2004 to May
2007 and from May 2008 until the completion of the privatization of Medicago
Inc., following the acquisition by Mitsubushi Tanabe Pharma Corporation for an
enterprise value of $357 million, he was Chief Financial Officer and Secretary
of Medicago Inc. Mr. Labbé was also acting Chief Financial Officer of Plexmar
Resources Inc. from May 2007 to November 2012. He was Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer and Secretary of Sequoia Minerals Inc. from December 2003 to
June 2004, and of Mazarin Inc. from March 2000 to December 2003, while both
companies were listed on the TSX. Prior to March 2000, he held management
positions in accounting and finance notably with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
(formerly Coopers & Lybrand). Mr. Labbé holds a Bachelor’s Degree in
Business Administration from Laval University, Québec City. He is a member of
the Ordre des comptables professionnels agréés du Québec and the
Institute of Corporate Directors. He is also a Director of Agility Health Inc.,
a rehabilitation services company. 
Mr. Labbé is considered to be independent of Osisko and is
financially literate, within the meaning of NI 52-110 and under the U.S.
Exchange Act and NYSE rules. 
Pierre D. Chenard 
Mr. Pierre D. Chenard has been Vice President, Business
Development and General Counsel, Aluminium at Rio Tinto since 2011. Mr. Chenard
has held progressive roles in both the corporate development and legal areas,
including General Counsel, Rio Tinto Global Aluminium and Canada, Vice President
and General Counsel at Alcan Inc. and Vice President and Head of Corporate
Development at Cambior Inc. Mr. Chenard was appointed to the Osisko Board in
accordance with an investment agreement entered into with the CDPQ. Mr. Chenard
earned Civil and Common Law degrees from McGill University and has been a member
of the Quebec Bar since 1984. 
Mr. Chenard is considered to be independent of Osisko and is
financially literate, within the meaning of NI 52 110 and under the U.S.
Exchange Act and NYSE rules. 
Charles E. Page 
Mr. Charles E. Page is a Professional Geologist and has more
 than 40 years of experience in the mineral industry. During his career, Mr. Page
 has held progressive leadership roles in developing strategies to explore,
 finance and develop mineral properties in Canada and internationally. Mr. Page
 worked at Queenston Mining Inc. in various capacities, including President and
 Chief Executive Officer, from 1990 to its sale to Osisko Mining Corporation in
 2012. Mr. Page also serves on the board of directors of Unigold Inc. and is
 Chair of the board of directors of Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd. Mr. Page holds a
 Bachelor of Science degree in Geological Science from Brock University and a
 Master of Science degree in Earth Science from the University of Waterloo. He is
 a Professional Geologist registered in the province of Ontario and Saskatchewan
 and is also a Fellow of the Geological Association of Canada. 
Mr. Page is considered to be independent of Osisko and is
 financially literate, within the meaning of NI 52 110 and under the U.S.
 Exchange Act and NYSE rules. 
79 

External Auditor Service Fees 
The fees billed to Osisko by its independent auditor,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, a partnership of Chartered Professional Accountants,
for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018, by category,
are as follows: 

 
 Year 
 Audit Fees(1) 
 Audit Related
 Fees(2) 
 Tax Fees(3) 
 All Other Fees 
 
 December 31, 2018 
 $598,803 
 $ - 
 $69,144 
 $ - 
 
 December 31, 2017 
 $1,017,480 
 $112,047 
 $397,685 
 $ -
_________________________

 
 (1) 
 
 Audit fees were higher in 2017 primarily due 2017 being
 the first year of receiving the auditor’s opinion on Osisko’s internal
 control over financial reporting, the acquisition of the Orion precious
 metals portfolio of assets for $1.1 billion and the services rendered in
 relation to the management information circular dated June 29, 2017, the
 issuance of convertible debentures and the services rendered in relation
 to the short-form prospectus dated October 27, 2017. The audit fees also
 include services rendered in connection with the audit of Osisko’s annual
 consolidated financial statements and annual audit fee for a separate
 audit opinion of a subsidiary of Osisko.
 
 (2) 
 
 Audit related fees for 2017 included primarily due
 diligence services pertaining to business combinations.
 
 (3) 
 
 Tax fees are related to tax compliance, tax planning and
 tax advice services for the preparation of corporate tax returns and for
 proposed transactions, mainly the Orion Transaction for
 2017.
80 

SCHEDULE A - AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER 

 
 I. 
 
 PURPOSES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The purposes of the Audit Committee are to assist the
 Board of Directors:

 
 
 1. 
 
 in its oversight of the Corporation’s accounting and
 financial reporting principles and policies and internal audit controls
 and procedures;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 in its oversight of the integrity, transparency and
 quality of the Corporation’s financial statements and the independent
 audit thereof;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 in selecting, evaluating and, where deemed appropriate,
 replacing the external auditors;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 in evaluating the qualification, independence and
 performance of the external auditors;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5. 
 
 in its oversight of the Corporation’s risk
 identification, assessment and management program; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6. 
 
 in the Corporation’s compliance with legal and regulatory
 requirements in respect of the above.
The function of the Audit Committee is
to provide independent and objective oversight. The Corporation’s management
team is responsible for the preparation, presentation and integrity of the
Corporation’s financial statements. Management is responsible for maintaining
appropriate accounting and financial reporting principles and policies and
internal controls and procedures that provide for compliance with accounting
standards and applicable laws and regulations. The external auditors are
responsible for planning and carrying out a proper audit of the Corporation’s
annual financial statements and other procedures. In fulfilling their
responsibilities hereunder, it is recognized that members of the Audit Committee
are not full-time employees of the Corporation and are not, and do not represent
themselves to be, accountants or auditors by profession or experts in the fields
of accounting or auditing including in respect of auditor independence. As such,
it is not the duty or responsibility of the Audit Committee or its members to
conduct “field work” or other types of auditing or accounting reviews or
procedures or to set auditor independence standards, and each member of the
Audit Committee shall be entitled to rely on (i) the integrity of those persons
and organizations within and external to the Corporation from which it receives
information, (ii) the accuracy of the financial and other information provided
to the Audit Committee by such persons or organizations absent actual knowledge
to the contrary (which shall be promptly reported to the Board of Directors) and
(iii) representations made by management as to non-audit services provided by
the auditors to the Corporation. 
The external auditors are ultimately
accountable to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee as representatives
of shareholders. The Audit Committee is directly responsible (subject to the
Board of Directors’ approval) for the appointment, compensation, retention
(including termination), scope and oversight of the work of the external
auditors engaged by the Corporation (including for the purpose of preparing or
issuing an audit report or performing other audit, review or attestation
services or other work of the Corporation), and is also directly responsible for
the resolution of any disagreements between management and any such firm
regarding financial reporting. 
The external auditors shall submit, at
least annually, to the Corporation and the Audit Committee: 

 
 
 
 • 
 
 as representatives of the shareholders of the
 Corporation, a formal written statement delineating all relationships
 between the external auditors and the Corporation (“Statement as to
 Independence”); 

 
 
 • 
 a formal written statement of the fees billed in
 compliance with the disclosure requirements of Form 52-110F1 of National
 Instrument 52-110; and 
 

81 

 
 
 • 
 
 a report describing: the Corporation’s internal
 quality-control procedures; any material issues raised by the most recent
 internal quality control review, or peer review, of the Corporation, or by
 any inquiry or investigation by governmental or professional authorities,
 within the preceding five years, respecting one or more independent audits
 carried out by the Corporation, and any steps taken to deal with any such
 issues. 

 
 II. 
 
 COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT
COMMITTEE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Audit Committee shall be comprised of three or more
 independent directors as defined under applicable legislation and stock
 exchange rules and guidelines and are appointed (and may be replaced) by
 the Board of Directors. Determination as to whether a particular director
 satisfies the requirements for membership on the Audit Committee shall be
 made by the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All members of the Committee shall be financially
 literate within the meaning of National Instrument 52-110 – Audit
 Committees (“NI 52-110”) and any other securities legislation and
 stock exchange rules applicable to the Corporation, and as confirmed by
 the Board of Directors using its business judgement (including but not
 limited to be able to read and understand a set of financial statements
 that present a breadth and level of complexity of accounting issues that
 are generally comparable to the breadth and complexity of the issues that
 can reasonably be expected to be raised by the Corporation’s financial
 statements), and at least one member of the Committee shall have
 accounting or related financial expertise or sophistication as such
 qualifications are interpreted by the Board of Directors in light of
 applicable laws and stock exchange rules, including the requirement to
 have at least one “audit committee financial expert” as such term is
 defined pursuant to Form 40-F under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of
 1934, as amended. The later criteria may be satisfied by past employment
 experience in finance or accounting, requisite professional certification
 in accounting, or any other comparable experience or background which
 results in the individual’s financial sophistication, including being or
 having been a chief executive officer, chief financial officer or other
 senior officer of an entity with financial oversight responsibilities, as
 well as other requirements under applicable laws and stock exchange
 rules.
 
 
 
 
 III. 
 
 MEMBERSHIP, MEETINGS AND QUORUM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Audit Committee shall meet at least four times
 annually or more frequently if circumstances dictate, to discuss with
 management the annual audited financial statements and quarterly financial
 statements, and all other related matters. The Audit Committee may request
 any officer or employee of the Corporation or the Corporation’s external
 counsel or external auditors to attend a meeting of the Audit Committee or
 to meet with any members of, or consultants to, the Audit
 Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Proceedings and meetings of the Audit Committee are
 governed by the provisions of By-Laws relating to the regulation of the
 meetings and proceedings of the Board of Directors as they are applicable
 and not inconsistent with this Charter and the other provisions adopted by
 the Board of Directors in regards to committee composition and
 organization.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The quorum at any meeting of the Committee is a majority
 of members in office. All members of the Audit Committee should strive to
 be at all meetings.

 
 IV. 
 
 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE AUDIT
 COMMITTEE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To carry out its purposes, the Audit Committee shall have
 unrestricted access to information and shall have the following duties and
 powers:

 
 
 1. 
 with respect to the external auditor,
 

82 

 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 to review and assess, at least annually, the performance
 of the external auditors, and recommend to the Board of Directors the
 nomination of the external auditors for appointment by the shareholders,
 or if required, the revocation of appointment of the external
 auditors;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 to review and approve the fees charged by the external
 auditors for audit services;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 to review and pre-approve all services, including
 non-audit services, to be provided by the Corporation’s external auditors
 to the Corporation or to its subsidiaries, and associated fees and to
 ensure that such services will not have an impact on the auditor’s
 independence, in accordance with procedures established by the Audit
 Committee. The Audit Committee may delegate such authority to one or more
 of its members, which member(s) shall report thereon to the
 committee;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 to ensure that the external auditors prepare and deliver
 annually a Statement as to Independence (it being understood that the
 external auditors are responsible for the accuracy and completeness of
 such statement), to discuss with the external auditors any relationships
 or services disclosed in the Statement as to Independence that may impact
 the objectivity and independence of the Corporation’s external auditors
 and to recommend that the Board of Directors take appropriate action in
 response to the Statement as to Independence to satisfy itself of the
 external auditors’ independence; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (v) 
 
 to instruct the external auditors that the external
 auditors are ultimately accountable to the Audit Committee and the Board
 of Directors, as representatives of the
shareholders;

 
 
 2. 
 
 with respect to financial reporting principles and
 policies and internal controls,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 to advise management that they are expected to provide to
 the Audit Committee a timely analysis of significant financial reporting
 issues and practices;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 to ensure that the external auditors prepare and deliver
 as applicable a detailed report covering 1) critical accounting policies
 and practices to be used; 2) material alternative treatments of financial
 information within generally accepted accounting principles that have been
 discussed with management, ramifications of the use of such alternative
 disclosures and treatments, and the treatment preferred by the external
 auditors; 3) other material written communications between the external
 auditors and management such as any management letter or schedule of
 unadjusted differences; and 4) such other aspects as may be required by
 the Audit Committee or legal or regulatory requirements;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 to understand the scope of the annual audit of the design
 and operation of the Corporation’s internal control over financial
 reporting (based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
 Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
 the Treadway Commission (COSO)) and the related auditor’s
report;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 to consider, review and discuss any reports or
 communications (and management’s responses thereto) submitted to the Audit
 Committee by the external auditors, including reports and communications
 related to:

 
 
 • 
 significant finding, deficiencies and recommendations
 noted following the annual audit of the design and operation of internal
 controls over financial reporting; 
 
 
 
 • 
 consideration of fraud in the audit of the financial
 statement; 
 
 
 
 • 
 detection of illegal acts; 
 
 
 
 • 
 the external auditors’ responsibilities under generally
 accepted auditing standards; 
 
 
 
 • 
 significant accounting policies; 
 
 
 
 • 
 management judgements and accounting estimates; 
 

83 

 
 
 • 
 
 adjustments arising from the audit; 
 
 
 • 
 
 the responsibility of the external auditors for other
 information in documents containing audited financial statements; 
 
 
 • 
 
 disagreements with management; 
 
 
 • 
 
 consultation by management with other accountants; 
 
 
 • 
 
 major issues discussed with management prior to retention
 of the external auditors; 
 
 
 • 
 
 difficulties encountered with management in performing
 the audit; 
 
 
 • 
 
 the external auditors judgements about the quality of the
 entity’s accounting principles; and 
 
 
 • 
 
 reviews of interim financial information conducted by the
 external auditors. 

 
 
 (v) 
 
 to meet with management and external
 auditors:

 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss the scope, planning and staffing of the annual
 audit and to review and approve the audit plan; 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss the audited financial statements, including
 the accompanying management’s discussion and analysis; 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss the unaudited interim quarterly financial
 statements, including the accompanying management’s discussion and
 analysis; 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss the appropriateness and quality of the
 Corporation’s accounting principles as applied in its financial reporting;
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss any significant matters arising from any audit
 or report or communication referred to in item 2 (iii) above, whether
 raised by management or the external auditors, relating to the
 Corporation’s financial statements; 
 
 
 • 
 
 to resolve disagreements between management and the
 external auditors regarding financial reporting; 
 
 
 • 
 
 to review the form of opinion the external auditors
 propose to render to the Board of Directors and shareholders; 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss significant changes to the Corporation’s
 auditing and accounting principles, policies, controls, procedures and
 practices proposed or contemplated by the external auditors or management,
 and the financial impact thereof; 
 
 
 • 
 
 to review any non-routine correspondence with regulators
 or governmental agencies and any employee complaints or published reports
 that raise material issues regarding the Corporation’s financial
 statements or accounting policies; 
 
 
 • 
 
 to review, evaluate and monitor the Corporation’s risk
 management program including the revenue protection program. This function
 should include: 

 
 
 >
 risk assessment; 
 
 
 >
 quantification of exposure;

 
 
 > 
 risk mitigation measures; and
 
 
 
 > 
 risk reporting;

 
 
 • 
 
 to review the adequacy of the resources of the finance
 and accounting group, along with its development and succession plans;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to monitor and review communications received in
 accordance with the Corporation’s Internal Whistle Blowing Policy;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 following completion of the annual audit and quarterly
 reviews, review separately with each of management and the independent
 auditor any significant changes to planned procedures, any difficulties
 encountered during the course of the audit and reviews, including any
 restrictions on the scope of the work or access to required information
 and the cooperation that the independent auditor received during the
 course of the audit and review; 
84 

 
 
 (vi) 
 
 to discuss with the Chief Financial Officer any matters
 related to the financial affairs of the Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (vii) 
 
 to discuss with the Corporation’s management any
 significant legal matters that may have a material effect on the financial
 statements, the Corporation’s compliance policies, including material
 notices to or inquiries received from governmental agencies;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (viii) 
 
 to periodically review with management the need for an
 internal audit function; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ix) 
 
 to review, and discuss with the Corporation’s Chief
 Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer the procedure with respect
 to the certification of the Corporation’s financial statements pursuant to
 National Instrument 52-109 Certification of Disclosure in Issuer’s Annual and
 Interim Filings and any other applicable law or stock exchange
 rule.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 3. 
 
 with respect to reporting and recommendations,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 to prepare/review any report or other financial
 disclosures to be included in the Corporation’s annual information form
 and management information circular;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 to review and recommend to the Board of Directors for
 approval, the interim and audited annual financial statements of the
 Corporation, management’s discussion and analysis of the financial
 conditions and results of operations (MD&A) and the press releases
 related to those financial statements;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 to review and recommend to the Board of Directors for
 approval, the annual report, management’s assessment on internal controls
 and any other like annual disclosure filings to be made by the Corporation
 under the requirements of securities laws or stock exchange rules
 applicable to the Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 to review and reassess the adequacy of the procedures in
 place for the review of the Corporation’s public disclosure of financial
 information extracted or derived from the Corporation’s financial
 statements, other than the public disclosure referred to in paragraph
 3(ii) above;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (v) 
 
 to prepare Audit Committee report(s) as required by
 applicable regulators;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (vi) 
 
 to review this Charter at least annually and recommend
 any changes to the Board of Directors; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (vii) 
 
 to report its activities to the Board of Directors on a
 regular basis and to make such recommendations with respect to the above
 and other matters as the Audit Committee may deem necessary or
 appropriate.

 
 
 4. 
 
 to review, discuss with management, and approve all
 related party transactions;

 
 
 5. 
 
 to create an agenda for the ensuing year;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6. 
 
 to review quarterly expenses of the Chief Executive
 Officer;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7. 
 
 to establish and reassess the adequacy of the procedures
 for the receipt, retention and treatment of any complaint received by the
 Corporation regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing
 matters, including procedures for the confidential anonymous submissions
 by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing
 matters in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8. 
 
 to set clear hiring policies regarding partners,
 employees and former partners and employees of the present and, as the
 case may be, former external auditor of the
Corporation.
85 

 
 V. 
 
 RESOURCES AND AUTHORITY OF THE AUDIT
 COMMITTEE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Audit Committee shall have the resources and
 authority appropriate to discharge its responsibilities, as it shall
 determine, including the authority to engage external auditors for special
 audits, reviews and other procedures and to retain special counsel and
 other experts or consultants. The Audit Committee shall have the sole
 authority (subject to the Board of Directors’ approval) to determine the
 terms of engagement and the extent of funding necessary (and to be
 provided by the Corporation) for payment of (a) compensation to the
 Corporation’s external auditors engaged for the purpose of preparing or
 issuing an audit report or performing other audit, review or attest
 services for the Corporation, (b) any compensation to any advisors
 retained to advise the Audit Committee and (c) ordinary administrative
 expenses of the Audit Committee that are necessary or appropriate in
 carrying out its duties.
 
 
 
 
 VI. 
 
 ANNUAL EVALUATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 At least annually, the Audit Committee shall, in a manner
 it determines to be appropriate:

 
 
 • 
 
 perform a review and evaluation of the performance of the
 Audit Committee and its members, including the compliance with this Chart;
 and 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review and assess the adequacy of its Charter and
 recommend to the Board of Directors any improvements to this Charter that
 the Committee determines to be appropriate. 
This Charter was approved and ratified by the Board of
Directors on April 30, 2014. This Charter was last reviewed and amended on
November 6, 2017. 
86 

SCHEDULE B - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE CANADIAN
MALARTIC PROPERTIES
Most Recent Technical Report 
The most recent technical report filed by Agnico and Yamana in
accordance with NI 43-101 is entitled “Technical Report on the Mineral Resource
and Mineral Reserve Estimates for the Canadian Malartic Property” with an
effective date of June 16, 2014 and a signature date of August 13, 2014 (the
“Canadian Malartic Report”). Reference should be made to the full text of
the Canadian Malartic Report. 
Information Contained in this Section 
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from (a) the Canadian Malartic Report; (b) Yamana’s and Agnico’s
most recent annual information forms as of the date hereof; and (c) various news
releases publicly filed by Agnico and/or Yamana, which may all be consulted
under Agnico’s and/or Yamana’s issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com
and none of which is nor shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference in this
Annual Information Form.
The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein.
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosure in this section
relating to operations on the Canadian Malartic Property is based on information
publicly disclosed by Agnico and/or Yamana and information/data available in the
public domain as at March 28, 2019 (except where stated otherwise), and none of
this information has been independently verified by Osisko. Osisko considers
that Agnico and Yamana have publicly disclosed all scientific and technical
information that is material to Osisko.
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited access to properties included in its asset portfolio. Additionally,
Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which it is not
permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the operators of the
properties and their qualified persons to provide information to Osisko or on
publicly available information to prepare required disclosure pertaining to
properties and operations on the properties on which Osisko holds interests and
generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such information.
Although Osisko does not have any knowledge that such information may not be
accurate, there can be no assurance that such third party information is
complete or accurate. Some information publicly reported by operators may relate
to a larger property than the area covered by Osisko’s interest. Osisko’s
interests often cover less than 100%, and sometimes only a portion of, the
publicly reported Mineral Reserves, Mineral Resources and production of the
property. Osisko shall not be held liable for any eventual misrepresentations in
any scientific or technical information excerpted from any technical information
publicly filed by Agnico and/or Yamana. 
Project Description, Location and Access 
The Canadian Malartic mine is located approximately 25
kilometres west of the City of Val-d’Or and 80 kilometres east of City of
Rouyn-Noranda. The mine lies within the town of Malartic. It straddles the
townships of Fournière, Malartic and Surimau.
The Canadian Malartic mine operates under mining leases
obtained from the Ministry of Natural Resources (Québec) and under certificates
of approval granted by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment and
the Fight Against Climate Change (Québec). The Canadian Malartic mine is
comprised of the East Amphi property, the CHL Malartic prospect, the Canadian
Malartic property of Canadian Malartic Corporation and the Fournière, Midway and
Piche-Harvey properties. The Canadian Malartic mine consists of a contiguous block comprising one (1)
mining concession, six (6) mining leases and 272 mining claims. The Canadian
Malartic mine is owned by Canadian Malartic GP. The Canadian Malartic mining
claims give Canadian Malartic GP the right to explore for mineral substances on
the subject land; the mining leases give Canadian Malartic GP the right to mine
mineral substances on the subject land; and the mining concession gives Canadian
Malartic GP the right to mine mineral substances and with surface rights limited
to those necessary for mining activities on the subject land. 
87 

Expiration dates for the mining leases on the Canadian Malartic
Property vary between March 23, 2019 and July 27, 2037 and are automatically
renewable for three further ten-year terms upon payment of a small fee. 
The Canadian Malartic mine can be accessed either from Val d’Or
in the east or from Rouyn-Noranda in the west via Québec provincial highway No.
117. A paved road running north-south from the town of Malartic towards Mourier
Lake cuts through the central area of the Canadian Malartic mine. The Canadian
Malartic Property is further accessible by a series of logging roads and trails.
The Canadian Malartic mine is also serviced by a rail-line which cuts through
the middle of the town of Malartic. The nearest large airport is located in
Val-d’Or, about 25 km east of the Canadian Malartic mine. 
A buffer zone 135 metres wide has been developed along the
northern limit of the open pit to mitigate the impacts of mining activities on
the citizens of Malartic. Inside this buffer zone, a landscaped ridge was built
mainly using rock and topsoil produced during pre-stripping work. 
The electrical power for the Canadian Malartic mine is supplied
from the existing Hydro-Québec 120kV Cadillac main substation. A 120 kV
electrical transmission line, approximately 19 kilometres long was built. The
plant water systems consist of the process water system which is supplied
principally from the plant thickener overflows, the fresh water system which is
supplied from an old underground mine dewatering system, the reagent preparation
water system, the gland water distribution system and the reclaim water from
form the Southeast Pond area. The Canadian Malartic mine is also connected to
the Malartic municipal sewage and potable water systems. Fuel storage facilities
have 250,000 litres of storage capacity. 
Skilled workers are available from the areas within an
approximate 25 km radius of Malartic, specifically Cadillac to the west and
Val-d’Or to the east, where a number of mines are still in operation. 
The Canadian Malartic Property is situated in the Abitibi
lowlands and is relatively flat, consisting of plains with a few small hills.
The topography on the property has altitudes ranging from 310 metres above sea
level (“masl”) to 360 masl. Most of the area is sparsely wooded with
secondary growth black spruce, larch and birch as the dominant species. The
central, east-central and west-central parts of the property are cut by a number
of small streams, generally oriented east-west and connecting bogs or swampy
areas. 
Overburden is characteristically a thin layer of till,
typically only a few metres thick, with local surface development of
organic-rich boggy material. Outcropping exposures of rock are rare to moderate,
generally increasing towards the southern portion of the property and
lithologies become harder and more resistant to erosion. 
The Canadian Malartic mine includes open-pit operations, an
administration/warehouse building, a mine office/truck shop building, a process
plant, a tailings management facility and the crushing plant. 
Following the joint acquisition of Osisko Mining Corporation
(now Canadian Malartic Corporation) by Agnico and Yamana, most of the mining
titles are subject to a 5% NSR royalty payable to Osisko. The mining claims
comprising the CHL Malartic prospect are subject to 3% NSR royalties payable to
each of Osisko and Abitibi Royalties Inc. In addition, of the 208 mining claims
constituting the Canadian Malartic property on June 16, 2014, 101 were also
subject to other net NSR royalties that vary between 1% and 2%, payable under
varying circumstances. Osisko holds a 5% NSR royalty on the Odyssey South zone
and a 3% NSR royalty on the Odyssey North zone, which adjoins the Canadian
Malartic mine. 
88 

History 
Gold was first discovered in the Malartic area in 1923. Gold
production on the Canadian Malartic property began in 1935 and continued
uninterrupted until 1965. Following various ownership changes over the ensuing
years, Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation) acquired
ownership of the Canadian Malartic property in 2004. Based on a feasibility
study completed in December 2008, Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian
Malartic Corporation) completed construction of a 55,000 tonne per day mill
complex, tailings impoundment area, 5 million cubic metre polishing pond and
road network by February 2011, and the mill was commissioned in March 2011. The
Canadian Malartic mine achieved commercial production on May 19, 2011.
Geological Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

Geology 
The Canadian Malartic property straddles the southern margin of
the eastern portion of the Abitibi Subprovince, an Archean greenstone belt
situated in the southeastern part of the Superior Province of the Canadian
Shield. The Abitibi Subprovince is limited to the north by gneisses and plutons
of the Opatica Subprovince, and to the south by metasediments and intrusive
rocks of the Pontiac Subprovince. The contact between the Pontiac Subprovince
and the rocks of the Abitibi greenstone belt is characterized by a major fault
corridor, the east-west trending Larder Lake-Cadillac Fault Zone
(“LLCFZ”). This structure runs from Larder Lake, Ontario through
Rouyn-Noranda, Cadillac, Malartic, Val-d’Or and Louvicourt, Québec, at which
point it is truncated by the Grenville Front. 
The regional stratigraphy of the southeastern Abitibi area is
divided into groups of alternating volcanic and sedimentary rocks, generally
oriented at N280° - N330° and separated by fault zones. The main
lithostratigraphic divisions in this region are, from south to north, the
Pontiac Group of the Pontiac Subprovince and the Piché, Cadillac, Blake River,
Kewagama and Malartic groups of the Abitibi Subprovince. The various
lithological groups within the Abitibi Subprovince are metamorphosed to
greenschist facies. Metamorphic grade increases toward the southern limit of the
Abitibi belt, where rocks of the Piché Group and the northern part of the
Pontiac Group have been metamorphosed to upper greenschist facies.
The majority of the Canadian Malartic property is underlain by
metasedimentary units of the Pontiac Group, lying immediately south of the
LLCFZ. The north-central portion of the property covers an approximately 9.5
kilometre section of the LLCFZ corridor and is underlain by mafic-ultramafic
rocks of the Piché Group cut by porphyritic and dioritic intrusions. The
Cadillac Group covers the northern part of the property (north of the LLCFZ). It
consists of greywacke containing lenses of conglomerate. 
Surface drilling by Lac Minerals Ltd. in the 1980s defined
several near-surface mineralized zones now included in the Canadian Malartic
deposit (the F, P, A, Wolfe and Gilbert zones), all expressions of a larger,
continuous mineralized system located at depth around the historical underground
workings of the Canadian Malartic and Sladen mines. In addition to these, the
Western Porphyry Zone occurs 1 km northeast of the main Canadian Malartic
deposit and the Gouldie mineralized zone occurs approximately 1.2 km southeast
of the main Canadian Malartic deposit, although the relationship between these
zones and the main deposit is presently unknown. 
Mineralization 
Mineralization in the Canadian Malartic deposit occurs as a
continuous shell of 1 to 5% disseminated pyrite associated with fine native gold
and traces of chalcopyrite, sphalerite and tellurides. The gold resource is
mostly hosted by altered clastic sediments of the Pontiac Group (70%) overlying
an epizonal dioritic porphyry intrusion. A portion of the deposit also occurs in
the upper portions of the porphyry body (30%). 
89 

The South Barnat deposit is located to the north and south of
the old South Barnat and East Malartic mine workings, largely along the southern
edge of the LLCFZ. The disseminated/stockwork gold mineralization at South
Barnat is hosted both in potassic-altered, silicified greywackes of the Pontiac
Group (south of the fault contact) and in potassic-altered porphyry dykes and
schistose, carbonatized and biotitic ultramafic rocks (north of the fault
contact). 
Several mineralized zones have been documented within the LLCFZ
(South Barnat, Buckshot, East Malartic, Jeffrey, Odyssey, East Amphi, Fourax),
all of which are generally spatially associated with stockworks and
disseminations within dioritic or felsic porphyritic intrusions. 
Deposit Type 
Before the acquisition of the property in 2004 by Osisko Mining
Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation), several models were proposed by
various authors to explain the origin of the gold deposits in the Malartic camp.
Among the proposed models are an epigenetic model with structural and
lithological control, an orthomagmatic-origin porphyry-related model, a porphyry
gold model, and a disseminated-stockwork zone model centered on felsic porphyry
intrusions. 
In 2004, Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic
Corporation)’s personnel adopted the porphyry gold model as a tool to drive
exploration on the property. More recently, a new model was proposed to define
the deposit type explaining the gold mineralization of the Canadian Malartic
mine. It represents a magmatic-hydrothermal model that calls for the exsolution
of an ore fluid from monzodioritic magma at mid-crustal levels. During its
ascent, this fluid potassically altered, carbonated, sulphidized and locally
silicified the host rocks and deposited gold. The porphyritic rocks that host
some of the mineralization were thus not the source of the fluids. Rather, their
contacts with Pontiac greywacke and Piché mafic and ultramafic rocks provided
the competency contrasts that helped focus the mineralizing fluids. 
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification 
The available data from the QA/QC programs for the Canadian
Malartic databases show overall acceptable results. 
The statistics of the Certified Reference Materials (standards)
are considered within industry-accepted limits of accuracy. 
The level of contamination appears to be low as the blank
samples do not display evidence of significant contamination. 
The samples sent to an external laboratory do not show any
significant bias as the global average is about the same and the coefficient of
correlation between the two populations is higher than 98%. 
The Canadian Malartic drill hole databases are considered
robust and suitable enough for use in mineral resource estimation studies. 
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing 
Canadian Malartic ore is composed of four main lithologies
(CPO, SPO, CGR and SGR) spread throughout the deposit in an average ratio of
10%, 20%, 28% and 42%. The deposit was studied (metallurgical testwork) along
three axes: east-west, north-south and depth. The main parameters studied were
hardness and abrasion variability, reagent consumption and gold recovery. 
Gold deportment and diagnostic leach tests demonstrated that
the residual gold, after the leach process, is encapsulated mainly in pyrite.
The significant proportion of the gold remaining in the tailings after the leach
process was characterized as very fine. It was demonstrated that gravimetric
processes are inefficient due to the small grain size. The grind of the leach
feed is the most important parameter observed, especially for the gold
encapsulated in sulphide. The finer the grind, the higher the recovery,
especially for the gold in sulphide. 
90 

Mining Operations 
The Canadian Malartic mine is a large open-pit operation
comprising the Canadian Malartic, Barnat and Gouldie pits. Canadian Malartic GP
continues to work with the Québec Ministry of Transport and the town of Malartic
on the deviation of Québec provincial highway No. 117 to gain access to the
higher grade Barnat deposit. The final layout and the environmental impact study
was completed by the end of January 2015.
The BAPE issued a report on the Canadian Malartic pit extension
on October 5, 2016. The BAPE report concluded that the project is acceptable and
provided several recommendations intended to enhance social acceptability. The
Quebec government issued a decree authorizing both the pit extension and
deviation of Quebec provincial highway No. 117 on April 12, 2017. The
authorizing decree is subject to an application for judicial review. In 2018,
development activities focused on the road deviation of Quebec provincial
highway No. 117 continued, including overburden stripping and tailings
expansion. The highway deviation is expected to be completed in late 2019, and
production activities at Barnat are scheduled to begin in late 2019, following
completion of the highway deviation. 
Mining at the Canadian Malartic mine is done by open pit method
using excavators and trucks, using large scale equipment. The primary loading
tools are hydraulic excavators, with wheel loaders used as a secondary loading
tool. The mine production schedule was developed to feed the mill at a nominal
rate of 55,000 tonnes per day. The continuity and consistency of the
mineralization, coupled with tight definition drilling, which has been confirmed
by nine years of mining operations, demonstrates the amenability of the mineral
reserves and mineral resources to the selected mining method 
The following table sets forth operation statistics of the
Canadian Malartic mine for the years ended December 31, 2018 and December 31,
2017. Figures have been adjusted by Osisko to reflect 100% of the Canadian
Malartic operation. 

 
 
 Twelve Months EndedDecember
 31, 2018 
 Twelve Months EndedDecember
 31, 2017 
 
 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes)
 (100%) 
 20,484 
 20,358 
 
 Tonnes of ore milled per day (100%) 
 56,121 
 55,774 
 
 Gold grade (g/t) 
 1.20 
 1.09 
 
 Gold production (ounces) (100%) 
 697,200 
 633,462 
 
 Production costs per tonne (C$) 
 $25 
 $24 
 
 Minesite costs per tonne (C$) 
 $25 
 $24 
 
 Production costs per ounce of gold produced
 (US$ per ounce) 
 $573 
 $595 
 
 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced
 (US$ per ounce) 
 $559 
 $576 
Production costs per tonne for the full year 2018 were
essentially the same when compared to the prior-year period. Production costs
per ounce for the full year 2018 decreased when compared to the prior-year
period due to higher gold production, partially offset by higher contractor and
fuel costs.
Minesite costs per tonne for the full year 2018 were
essentially the same when compared to the prior-year period. Total cash costs
per ounce for the full year 2018 decreased when compared to the prior-year
period due to higher gold production, partially offset by higher contractor and
fuel costs.
Gold production for the full year 2018 increased when compared
to the prior-year period due to record annual mill throughput levels and higher
grades.
91 

Work on the Barnat extension project is proceeding on budget
and on schedule. Work is primarily focused on the Highway 117 road deviation,
overburden stripping and tailings expansion. The highway deviation is expected
to be completed in late 2019. Production activities at Barnat are scheduled to
begin in late 2019, following completion of the highway deviation. 
Exploration programs are ongoing to evaluate several deposits
to the east of the Canadian Malartic open pit, including the Odyssey, East
Malartic, Sladen and Sheehan zones. These opportunities have the potential to
provide new sources of ore for the Canadian Malartic mill. In the fourth quarter
of 2018, 14 drill holes (5,460 metres) were completed at the Odyssey Zone and an
additional 13 drill holes (17,416 metres) were completed at the East Malartic
area. Additional exploration will be carried out in 2019 to assess the potential
of these zones. 
The permit allowing for the development of an underground ramp
at the Odyssey project was received in December 2018. 
As part of ongoing stakeholder engagement, Canadian Malartic GP
is in discussions with four First Nations groups concerning a potential
memorandum of understanding, which is expected to also include a financial
component. As with the Good Neighbour Guide and other community relations
efforts at Canadian Malartic, the Company is working collaboratively with
stakeholders to establish cooperative relationships that support the long-term
potential of the mine. 
Infrastructure, Permitting and Compliance Activities

Surface Facilities 
Surface facilities at the Canadian Malartic mine include the
administration/warehouse building, the mine office/truck shop building, the
process plant, a tailings management facility and the crushing plant. The
processing plant has a nominal capacity of 55,000 tonnes of ore. 
Ore is processed via conventional cyanidation. Ore blasted from
the pit is first crushed by a gyratory crusher followed by secondary crushing
prior to grinding. Ground ore feeds successively into leach and CIP circuits.

A Zadra elution circuit is used to extract the gold from the
loaded carbon. Pregnant solution is processing via electrowining and the
resulting precipitate is smelted into gold/silver dore bars. 
Mill tails are thickened and detoxified, reducing cyanide
levels below 20 parts per million. A recent study supported the change-over of
the existing Combinox (sulfur dioxide – hydrogen peroxide) cyanide detoxifying
process into a Caro’s (sulfuric acide – hydrogen peroxide) acid process.
Detoxified slurry is subsequently pumped to a conventional tailings facility.

Environmental Matters 
In 2015, an action plan was developed and implemented by
Canadian Malartic GP to mitigate noise, vibrations, atmospheric emissions and
ancillary issues. Mitigation measures were put in place to improve the process
and avoid any non-conformance. As a result, over time, Canadian Malartic GP has
improved its environmental performance compared to previous years. With respect
to activities in 2018, it received one non-compliance blast notice, a decrease
from the three notices received with respect to activities in 2017. The mine’s
team of on-site environmental experts continuously monitor regulatory compliance
in terms of approvals, permits and observance of directives and requirements.

The original design of the waste rock pile was developed to
accommodate approximately 326 million tonnes of mechanically placed waste rock requiring a total
storage volume of approximately 161 million cubic metres. The design of the
waste rock pile has been modified to accommodate the Canadian Malartic pit
extension and now includes storage capacity for approximately 740 million
tonnes. 
92 

The expansion of the open pit, with the production from the
Canadian Malartic pit extension, will increase the total amount of tailings to
342 million tonnes over the life of mine. The total capacity of the current
tailings management facility is estimated to be 198 million tonnes. An
additional tailings cell was authorized by the Ministry of Sustainable
Development, Environment and the Fight Against Climate Change (Quebec) and
construction began in the third quarter of 2017. This cell will add capacity for
approximately 50 million tonnes of tailings and is expected to be in operation
in 2018. In addition, Canadian Malartic GP plans to store additional tailings in
the Canadian Malartic pit at the end of its operations. According to the mine
plan, up to 100 million tonnes of tailings will be deposited in the Canadian
Malartic pit once mining in the pit is completed. 
Regulatory approval for the proposed tailings deposition in the
Canadian Malartic pit is part of the approval process for the Canadian Malartic
pit extension. A hydrogeological study is being prepared to demonstrate that the
Canadian Malartic pit would provide a hydraulic trap and contain the tailings
with minimal environmental risk. Any delays in the expected timing of the
permits required for the Canadian Malartic pit extension could have a negative
impact on the mining sequence at Canadian Malartic. 
The public hearings as part of the BAPE process took place in
June and July 2016 for the Canadian Malartic pit extension and the BAPE issued
their report in October 2016, with a recommendation to the Minister that the
project be accepted with certain conditions. The Quebec government issued the
decree authorizing both the pit extension and deviation of Quebec provincial
highway No. 117 on April 12, 2017. 
An annual hydrological site balance is maintained to provide a
yearly estimate of water volumes that must be managed in the different
structures of the water management system of the Canadian Malartic mine during
an average climatic year (in terms of precipitation). Results of this
hydrological balance indicate that excess water from the Southeast Pond will
eventually need to be released into the environment. A water treatment plant is
currently under construction to ensure that in the short and medium term the
water to be released to the environment will meet water quality requirements.
Adding a treatment plant is expected to reduce the risks associated with surface
water management and add flexibility to the system. 
Reclamation and closure costs have been estimated for
rehabilitating the tailings facility and waste dump, vegetating the surrounding
area, dismantling the plant and associated infrastructure, and performing
environmental inspection and monitoring for a period of ten years. 
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Estimates - Canadian
Malartic 
In February 2019, Agnico and Yamana disclosed mineral reserve
and mineral resource estimates reported as at December 31, 2018. See also
“Notice to Investors – Technical Information”. All numbers published
by Agnico and Yamana in respect of the Canadian Malartic mine reflect their
respective 50% ownership in the mine. However, unless otherwise noted, the
figures presented in this Annual Information Form have been adjusted, where
applicable, to reflect 100% of the Canadian Malartic mine. 
The following table sets forth the estimated “Mineral Reserves”
(as defined in accordance with the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and
Petroleum (“CIM”) - Definition Standards adopted by CIM Council on May
10, 2014 (the “CIM Definition Standards”) for the Canadian Malartic mine
operated by Canadian Malartic GP, owned by Agnico (50%) and Yamana (50%), as of
December 31, 2018 (figures below have been adjusted by Osisko to reflect 100% of
the Canadian Malartic operation): 

 
 Proven and Probable Mineral
 Reserves(1)(2)(3)(4) 
 
 
 Category 
 Tonnes(thousands) 
 Grade(grams per tonne) 
 Au(thousands of ounces) 
 
 Proven 
 46,058 
 0.89 
 1,316 
 
 Probable 
 111,598 
 1.18 
 4,244 
 
 Proven + Probable 
 157,656 
 1.10 
 5,560 

93 

Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Reserves have been calculated in accordance
 with the CIM Definition Standards and NI 43-101. The “Mineral Reserves”
 are classified as “Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves”, and are based on
 the CIM Definition Standards.
 
 (2) 
 
 Canadian Malartic GP, owned by Agnico (50%) and Yamana
 (50%), which owns and operates the Canadian Malartic mine, has estimated
 the mine’s December 2018 Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources using the
 following assumptions: US$1,200 per ounce gold, a cut-off grade between
 0.37 g/t and 0.38 g/t gold (depending on the deposit) and an exchange rate
 of C$1.25 per US$1.00.
 
 (3) 
 
 The numbers in the “Tonnes” and “Contained Metal” columns
 are based on Agnico’s disclosure of its 50% interest in the Canadian
 Malartic mine, and have been multiplied by a factor of two to reflect 100%
 of the Canadian Malartic mine.
 
 (4) 
 
 Numbers may not add up due to
rounding.
The following table sets forth the estimated “Mineral
Resources” (as defined in accordance with the CIM Definition Standards) for the
Canadian Malartic mine operated by Canadian Malartic GP, owned by Agnico (50%)
and Yamana (50%), as of December 31, 2018 (figures below have been adjusted by
Osisko to reflect 100% of the Canadian Malartic operation): 

 
 Measured and Indicated Mineral
 Resources(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(excluding Proven
 and Probable Mineral Reserves) 
 
 
 Category
 Mining Method
 Tonnes(thousands) 
 Grade(grams per tonne) 
 
 Measured
 Open Pit 
 476 
 0.48 
 
 Underground 
 3,294 
 1.49 
 
 Indicated
 Open Pit 
 1,830 
 0.48 
 
 Underground 
 12,852 
 1.66 
 
 Inferred
 Open Pit 
 1,996 
 0.98 
 
 Underground 
 3,388 
 1.38 

Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Resources have been calculated in accordance
 with the CIM Definition Standards and NI 43-101. The “Mineral Resources”
 are classified as “Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources”,
 and are based on the CIM Definition Standards.
 
 (2) 
 
 Mineral Resources are exclusive of Mineral Reserves.
 Mineral Resources are not known with the same degree of certainty as
 Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic
viability.
 
 (3) 
 
 Canadian Malartic GP, owned by Agnico (50%) and Yamana
 (50%), which owns and operates the Canadian Malartic mine, has estimated
 the mine’s December 2018 Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources using the
 following assumptions: US$1,200 per ounce gold and an exchange rate of
 C$1.25 per US$1.00. At the Canadian Malartic mine, the mineral resources
 are estimated using 80% of the cut-off grades used to estimate the mineral
 reserves.
 
 (4) 
 
 The quantity and grade of reported “Inferred Mineral
 Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and
 great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be
 assumed that all or any part of an “Inferred Mineral Resource” will ever
 be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of
 “Inferred Mineral Resources” may not form the basis of feasibility or
 pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not
 to assume that part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists, or is
 economically or legally mineable.
 
 (5) 
 
 The numbers in the “Tonnes” column are based on Agnico’s
 disclosure of its 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine, and have
 been multiplied by a factor of two to reflect 100% of the Canadian
 Malartic mine.

Updated Mineral Resource at Odyssey and New Mineral Resource
Reported at East Malartic
The Odyssey property is composed of multiple mineralized bodies
spatially associated with a porphyritic intrusion close to the contact of the
Pontiac Group sediments and the Piché Group of volcanic rocks. They are grouped
into two elongated zones, the Odyssey North and Odyssey South zones, that strike
east-southeast and dip steeply south. Odyssey North has been traced from a depth
of 600 to 1,300 metres below surface along a strike length of approximately 1.5
kilometres. Odyssey South currently has a strike length of 0.5 kilometres and
has been located between approximately 200 and 550 metres below surface.
94 

During 2017, a total of 125 holes (86,051 metres) were
completed at the Odyssey property. The 2017 results have been incorporated with
previous work to update the mineral resource for the Odyssey property (inclusive
of the North and South zones). Inferred mineral resources (on a 50% basis) are
estimated at 838,000 ounces of gold (11.2 million tonnes grading 2.32 g/t
gold).
The inferred mineral resource includes a small contribution
from the Jupiter Zone, which is an internal zone that extends from the Odyssey
North Zone. Drilling carried out to date suggests that these internal zones
could increase mineral resources and enhance the economics of the project by
adding higher grade ounces that would require minimal additional infrastructure
to access. Additional drilling is required to fully understand the complex
nature of these zones so that they can be integrated into the mineral resource
model.
In 2017, an initial inferred mineral resource was declared on
the East Malartic property, which was a historical gold producer directly
adjacent to the Canadian Malartic mine. Inferred mineral resources at East
Malartic (on a 50% basis) are estimated at 1.2 million ounces of gold (19
million tonnes grading 2.02 g/t gold) to a depth of 1,000 metres.
The following table sets forth the estimated “Mineral
Resources” (as defined in accordance with the CIM Definition Standards) for the
Odyssey property and the East Malartic property, as of December 31, 2017 (for
Odyssey, figures below have been adjusted by Osisko to reflect 100% of the
operation): 

 
 Measured and Indicated
 Mineral Resources(1)(2)(3)(4)(5) 
 
 
 Odyssey Property 
 
 
 Category 
 Mining Method
 Tonnes(thousands) 
 Grade(grams per
 tonne) 
 
 Indicated 
 Underground 
 2,018 
 2.11 
 
 Inferred 
 Underground 
 22,996 
 2.19 
 
 East Malartic Property 
 
 
 Category
 Mining Method
 Tonnes(thousands) 
 Grade(grams per
 tonne) 
 
 Indicated 
 Underground 
 10,530 
 2.13 
 
 Inferred 
 Underground 
 44,042 
 1.98 

Notes: 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Resources have been calculated in accordance
 with the CIM Definition Standards and NI 43-101. The “Mineral Resources”
 are classified as “Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources”,
 and are based on the CIM Definition Standards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 Mineral Resources are not known with the same degree of
 certainty as Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic
 viability.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 
 Using the following assumptions: US$1,200 per ounce gold
 and an exchange rate of C$1.25 per US$1.00. The cut-off grade is not
 specifically stated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 
 The quantity and grade of reported “Inferred Mineral
 Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and
 great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be
 assumed that all or any part of an “Inferred Mineral Resource” will ever
 be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of
 “Inferred Mineral Resources” may not form the basis of feasibility or
 pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of
 an inferred mineral resource exists, or is economically or legally
 mineable.

 
 
 (5) 
 
 The numbers in the “Tonnes” column are based on Agnico’s
 disclosure of its interest (Odissey 50% and East Malartic 100%) and have
been adjusted to reflect a 100% interest.

Estimated 2019 Capital Expenditures 
Budgeted 2019 capital expenditures at the Canadian Malartic
mine are US$165.4 million, excluding capitalized exploration (US$4.6 million).

95 

Update on Canadian Malartic 
On August 2, 2016, Canadian Malartic GP was served with a class
action lawsuit, filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, with respect to
allegations involving the Canadian Malartic mine. The complaint is in respect of
‘‘neighbourhood annoyances’’ arising from dust, noise, vibrations and blasts at
the mine. The plaintiffs are seeking damages in an unspecified amount as well as
punitive damages in the amount of $20 million. The class action was certified in
May 2017. In November 2017, a declaratory judgment was issued allowing Canadian
Malartic GP to settle individually with class members for 2017 under its “Good
Neighbor Guide”. In September 2018, the Superior Court of Quebec introduced an
annual revision of the ending date of the class action period and a mechanism
for the partial exclusion of class members, allowing residents to individually
settle for a specific period (usually a calendar year) and to opt-out from the
class action for such specific period. Both of these judgments were confirmed by
the Quebec Court of Appeal and the class members will thus continue to have the
option to benefit from the “Good Neighbor Guide”. In January 2018, a judgment
was rendered in favor of Canadian Malartic GP, resulting in the removal from the
class action of the pre-transaction period, spanning from August 2013 to June
16, 2014, during which the Canadian Malartic mine was not operated by Canadian
Malartic GP. Canadian Malartic GP will take all necessary steps to defend
themselves from this lawsuit. Osisko does not believe that this class action
would have any impact on the financial results of Osisko as its royalty is based
on production.
Since the spring of 2015, Canadian Malartic GP has been working
collaboratively with the community of Malartic and its citizens to develop a
“Good Neighbour Guide” that addresses the allegations contained in the class
action lawsuit. Implementation of the Good Neighbour Guide, which includes a
compensation program and a home acquisition program, began on September 1,
2016.
Under the compensation program, over 90% of the residents of
Malartic have agreed to settle their claims for the compensation offered.
Compensation offered to eligible residents of the northern sector of Malartic in
2017 was paid in the first quarter of 2018. Compensation offered to eligible
residents of the southern sector of Malartic, who are also members of the class
action, was paid in the third and fourth quarters of 2018 following a final
judgment that allowed these residents to individually settle with Canadian
Malartic GP until the end of the class action opt-out period. Compensation
offered to both eligible residents of the northern and southern sectors of
Malartic in 2018 will be paid in the first quarter of 2019, as the class action
opt-out period will not be completed prior to then. To date, 42 residences have
been acquired in the southern sector of Malartic under the acquisition program
of the Good Neighbour Guide, of which 16 of them have subsequently been sold
under Canadian Malartic’s resale program that was implemented in April 2018.

As part of ongoing stakeholder engagement, Canadian Malartic is
in discussions with four First Nations groups concerning a potential memorandum
of understanding, which is expected to also include a financial component. As
with the Good Neighbour Guide and other community relations efforts at Canadian
Malartic, Canadian Malartic GP is working collaboratively with stakeholders to
establish cooperative relationships that support the long-term potential of the
mine. 
In addition, on August 15, 2016, Agnico and Yamana indicated
that Canadian Malartic GP received notice of an application for injunction
relating to the Canadian Malartic mine, which has been filed under the
Environment Quality Act (Québec). The hearing related to the injunction
took place in March 2017. A decision of the Superior Court of Quebec dismissed the
injunction. An application for permanent injunction is currently pending.
Canadian Malartic GP has reviewed the injunction request, considers the request
without merit and will take all reasonable steps to defend against this
injunction. These measures include a motion for the dismissal of the application
for injunction, which has been filed and will be heard at a date that has yet to
be determined.
Following the Québec BAPE public hearings in June and July
2016, permitting of the Canadian Malartic extension project and Highway 117
deviation reached an important milestone with the issue of the BAPE report on
October 5, 2016. The report concluded that the project is acceptable and
provides several recommendations intended to enhance social acceptability.
96 

On April 19, 2017, the Government of Quebec announced the
issuance of two decrees authorizing Canadian Malartic GP to carry out the
proposed expansion of the Canadian Malartic mine and the diversion of Highway
117 in Malartic (the “Project”). 
Diversion plans will include a temporary bridge over Highway
117 to minimize the impact of the construction work on local traffic. During the
third quarter of 2017, construction commenced on the temporary bridge. The road
construction is expected to occur over a two-year period. Agnico’s most recent
production guidance assumes a modest contribution from the Project in late 2019.

The approval of the Project provides greater operating
flexibility and allows for mill throughput of 55,000 tpd. The decree sets the
maximum extraction rate at 241,000 tpd (ore and waste) as long as noise and dust
thresholds are not exceeded.
On June 1, 2017, Canadian Malartic GP was served with an
application for judicial review to obtain the annulment of a governmental
decree. Canadian Malartic GP is an impleaded party in the proceedings. The
applicant seeks to obtain the annulment of a decree authorizing the expansion of
the Canadian Malartic mine. Canadian Malartic GP has reviewed the application
for judicial review, considers the application without merit and will take all
reasonable steps to defend against this application. The hearing on the merits
occurred in October 2018, but no judgment has been rendered as of the date
hereof. 
On March 28, 2018, Agnico acquired all of Yamana’s indirect 50%
interest in the Canadian exploration assets of Canadian Malartic Corporation.
The transaction will not affect the Canadian Malartic mine and related assets
including Odyssey, East Malartic, Midway and East Amphi, which will continue to
be jointly owned and operated by the Agnico and Yamana through Canadian Malartic
Corporation and Canadian Malartic GP.
At Canadian Malartic, Canadian Malartic GP is evaluating the
potential for underground mining of the Odyssey and East Malartic deposits from
surface to a depth of 600 metres. These deposits could provide higher grade
tonnes that could potentially supplement open pit production at Canadian
Malartic. Drilling is ongoing to extend and upgrade the mineral resources in
these zones. The permit and Certificate of Authorization was received in
December 2018, which allows for the development of an underground ramp at
Odyssey. 
2019-2021 Guidance 
At Canadian Malartic, there is a slight increase in guidance
for 2019 and 2020 compared to the previous guidance. Gold production in 2020 and
2021 is expected to increase primarily due to the mining of higher grades in the
Barnat pit. 
The annual production at the Canadian Malartic mine in 2019 is
expected to consist of approximately 660,000 ounces of gold and 560,000 ounces
of silver from 20 million tonnes of ore grading 1.16 grams of gold per tonne and
1.16 grams of silver per tonne. The total cash costs per ounce in 2019 are
expected to be approximately $576 per ounce on a by-product basis, with
estimated gold recovery of 88.5% and silver recovery of 75.2%. Minesite costs
per tonne of approximately C$25 are expected in 2019. 
Estimated Payable Gold Production (oz) 

 
 
 2019Forecast 
 2020 Forecast 
 2021 Forecast 
 
 
 Range 
 Mid-Point 
 Range 
 Mid-Point 
 
 CanadianMalartic(100%) 
 660,000 
 690,000 
 710,000 
 700,000 
 690,000 
 710,000 
 700,000

97 

Canadian Malartic Forecast 2019 

 
 Ore Milled(‘000 tonnes) 
 Gold(g/t) 
 Gold Mill Recovery(%) 
 Minesite Costs perTonne(1) 
 
 20,000 
 1.16
 
 88.5% 
 C$25 

 
 (1) 
 
 Minesite costs per tonne is a non-GAAP
 measure.
Total cash costs per ounce on a by-product basis of gold
produced (US$ per ounce) 

 
 
 2018 Actual 
 2019 Forecast (mid-point) 
 
 Canadian Malartic (100%) 
 US$559 
 US$576 
98 

SCHEDULE C - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE ÉLÉONORE
MINE
Most Recent Technical Report
The most recent technical report filed by Goldcorp on the
Éléonore project in accordance with NI 43-101 is entitled entitled “Éléonore
Operations, Québec, Canada, NI 43-101 Technical Report” (the “Éléonore
Report”) dated effective November 30, 2018. Reference should be made to the
full text of the Éléonore Report. 
Information Contained in this Section
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from (a) the Éléonore Report; (b) Goldcorp’s most recent annual
information form as of the date hereof; and (c) various news releases publicly
filed by Goldcorp which may all be consulted under Goldcorp’s issuer profile on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com and none of which is nor shall be deemed to be
incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form. 
The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein.
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosure in this section
relating to operations on the Éléonore project is based on information publicly
disclosed by Goldcorp and information/data available in the public domain as at
March 28, 2019 (except where stated otherwise), and none of this information has
been independently verified by Osisko. This Schedule “C” contains references to
United States dollars (“$” or “US$”). All dollar amounts referenced in this
Schedule “C”, unless otherwise indicated, are expressed in United States
dollars. Osisko considers that Goldcorp has publicly disclosed all scientific
and technical information that is material to Osisko. 
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited, if any, access to properties included in its asset portfolio.
Additionally, Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which
it is not permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the
operators of the properties and their qualified persons to provide information
to Osisko or on publicly available information to prepare required disclosure
pertaining to properties and operations on the properties on which Osisko holds
interests and generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such
information. Although Osisko does not have any knowledge that such information
may not be accurate, there can be no assurance that such third party information
is complete or accurate. Some information publicly reported by operators may
relate to a larger property than the area covered by Osisko’s interest. Osisko’s
interests often cover less than 100%, and sometimes only a portion of, the
publicly reported Mineral Reserves, Mineral Resources and production of the
property. Osisko shall not be held liable for any eventual misrepresentations in
any scientific or technical information excerpted from any technical information
publicly filed by Goldcorp. 
Project Description and Location 
The Éléonore Mine is located in the Lake Ell area, in the
north-eastern part of the Opinaca Reservoir of the James Bay region, in the
Province of Québec, Canada. The Éléonore Mine is located approximately 350
kilometres north of the towns of Matagami and Chibougamau, and 825 kilometres
north of Montréal.
The closest towns to the operations are Matagami and
Chibougamau. The Éléonore Mine is accessed via a road that extends from the
Sarcelle hydroelectric facility to the Éléonore site. The Sarcelle hydroelectric
station can be reached via a 40 kilometres long gravel road starting at the 396
kilometre marker along the James Bay Highway (Route de la Baie-James). All of
the material, supplies, and food for the construction and operational phases are
transported along this access route. Workers are brought on site via a permanent
year-round air strip located approximately 1.5 kilometres north of the camp.

99

The Éléonore Mine comprises 369 contiguous claims totalling 18,971.7 hectares in addition to a granted mining lease (289.4 hectares), for a total tenure holding of 19,261.1 hectares. The claims are 100% owned by Les Mines Opinaca
Ltée (“Opinaca”), Goldcorp’s indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary. The Éléonore Mine hosts the Roberto gold deposit, which consists of the Roberto, East Roberto, and Zone du Lac lenses. The Roberto deposit
is located under the Opinaca Reservoir. Mining Lease #1009, covering the Roberto deposit, was granted by the Québec government in February 2014. The lease is valid for a 20-year period with annual fees payable. Under Québec law, claims
in the James Bay area are map-staked. 

The Éléonore Mine is located entirely in Cree territory, or Eeyou Istchee, on Category III lands belonging to the Québec government and subject to the James Bay and Northern Québec Agreement. Surface leases were obtained
from the Ministry of Natural Resources for all infrastructures planned for the Éléonore Mine. 

Goldcorp makes an annual payment to the Cree Nation under the terms of the confidential Opinagow Collaboration Agreement dated February 21, 2011 between Goldcorp, the Cree Nation of Wemindji, the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the
Cree Nation Government. 

The Éléonore Mine currently holds all required permits to operate including environmental permits. 

Goldcorp has indicated in its public disclosure that to the extent known, there are no other material factors and risks known to Goldcorp that may affect access, title, or the right or ability to perform work on the Éléonore Mine. 

Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography

Accessibility 

The closest towns to the Éléonore project are Matagami and Chibougamau which are both located approximately 350 kilometres to the south. A permanent road with two permanent bridges has been completed, extending from the Sarcelle
hydroelectric facility to the Éléonore project. The Sarcelle station can be reached via a 40-kilometre gravel road, starting at the 396 kilometre marker along the James Bay Highway. All of the material, supplies, and food for the
construction and operational phases will be transported along this access route. Workers are brought on site via a permanent year-round air strip located approximately 1.5 kilometres north of the camp.

Climate 

The climate of the Éléonore project area is typical of Northern Canada and is a temperate to sub-arctic climate. Average summer temperatures between June and September vary between 10 degrees Celsius and 25 degrees Celsius during the
day, and five degrees Celsius and 15 degrees Celsius at night. Winters can be cold, with temperatures from -60 degrees Celsius and -10 degrees Celsius. Precipitation varies throughout the year, reaching an average of two metres annually. Exploration
activities are currently conducted year-round, but can be temporarily halted during spring thaw and fall freeze-up. Mining activities are expected to be conducted year-round.

Local Resources and Infrastructure 

The James Bay region is surrounded by extensive hydroelectric facilities and associated infrastructure, the closest of which are the Sarcelle hydroelectric facility located 40 kilometres due west of the Éléonore project on the Opinaca
Reservoir and the Eastmain Dam located 70 kilometres to the south. A 120 kilovolt overhead incoming transmission line with two 120/25 kilovolt 40/53/66.6 MVA oil step-down transformers supports the mining operation. 

100

Physiography 

The physiography of the region is typical of the Canadian Shield and includes many lakes, swamps and rivers. Outcrop is limited, due to the presence of swamps and glacial deposits. The area is characterized by a gently undulating peneplain relief.
The elevation of the few hills of this rolling landscape ranges from 215 metres to 300 metres above sea level. The area is drained by Lake Ell, which is itself part of the Opinaca Reservoir. Vegetation is typical of taiga and includes sparse spruce
forests separated by large swampy areas devoid of trees.

History 

The first recorded exploration in the Éléonore Mine area was by Noranda, in 1964. Noranda Inc. identified a copper showing located within the Ell Lake diorite intrusion. From 2001 to 2005, VGM completed regional reconnaissance grab and
channel sampling around Noranda’s Ell Lake copper showing; this work identified a number of new showings. A series of mineralized corridors consisting of stockworked gold and chalcopyrite-bearing quartz veinlets were outlined within dioritic
to tonalitic intrusions. In addition, a number of mineralized and partially-rounded erratic blocks, located about 300 metres from the mineralized corridors, returned significantly elevated copper, gold, and silver values. 

The Roberto deposit was located toward the end of 2003. Work completed subsequent to the discovery included a helicopter-borne, detailed magnetic survey (45-line kilometres on two 50 metres line spaced grids), additional trenching, core drilling of
351 core holes (105,635 metres), 125.5 kilometres of grid lines, 226.3 line kilometres of IP geophysical survey, and B-horizon soil sampling (1,244 samples). From June to August 2004, additional trenching was performed on the Roberto Zone. VGM
commenced core drilling in September 2004 and by November 2005 a total of 247 core holes had been drilled. Drilling completed by VGM successfully extended the mineralization found at surface to a depth of 800 metres below surface. It also extended
the mineralization beyond the Roberto Peninsula into the James Bay area and on the north shore of Ell Lake as well as to the south. 

Goldcorp reached an agreement to acquire the Éléonore Property with VGM in November 2005. Goldcorp took control of the Éléonore Property on March 31, 2006. Since the acquisition, Goldcorp has performed till sampling,
lake-bottom sediment sampling, surface mapping and trenching, additional core drilling, Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation, engineering studies, and mine permitting activities. Mine construction commenced in November 2011, and the first
gold pour occurred on October 1, 2014. 

Geological Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

The Roberto deposit is located in Archaean rocks of the Superior Province of Canada in the transition zone between the Opinaca Subprovince and the La Grande Subprovince. The contact between the two subprovinces is not well known and generally
corresponds to regional-scale deformation zones and a sharp change in the metamorphic gradient. In some areas, the contact is masked by late intrusions of one or the other subprovince. 

The Opinaca Subprovince basin is a sedimentary basin dominated by migmatized paragneisses and diatexites from the Laguiche Complex and intruded by syn to post-tectonic tonalite, granodiorite, granite and pegmatite intrusions from the Janin and Boyd
instrusive suites. The metamorphic grade increases from amphibolites facies near the margins to granulite facies toward the center of the basin. The paragneisses are strongly metamorphosed and folded rocks that retained few of their original
structures. 

The “S-shaped” La Grande Subprovince surrounds the Opinaca Subprovince on its west and north sides, spanning a distance of 450 kilometres in the east-west direction and of 250 kilometres in the north-south direction. The La Grande
Subprovince is an assemblage of volcano-plutonic rocks composed of 85% intrusive rocks and 15% volcano-sedimentary units, the latest forming the volcano-sedimentary units of the La Grande River and Eastmain River green belts. These assemblages
overlay an older tonalitic basement. Metamorphic grade increases from the greenschist facies to the amphibolites facies toward the contact with
the Opinaca Subprovince. The Éléonore Mine is overlain by rocks of the Eastmain Group of the La Grande Subprovince. At its base, the Eastmain Group consists of the Bernou Formation and the Kasak Formation, which are composed of basalts
and intermediate to felsic tuff. 

101

Regional faults are mainly present in the La Grande Subprovince and are oriented north–south, east–west, and northwest–southeast. In outcrop, the faults can be recognized by either a strong tectonic banding or by the presence of
intense shear zones with mylonitization. In the Opinaca Subprovince, faults and shear zones are mainly located along fold limbs. 

The Éléonore Mine straddles the contact between the Opinaca and La Grande Subprovinces. The contact is located in the northeast corner of the property along a north-westerly trend that is defined by a strong shear zone, a change in the
magnetic grain, and an increase in the metamorphic gradient. The Éléonore Mine is hosted in Achaean-age rocks of a volcano-sedimentary greenstone belt developed near the contact between the Opinaca and La Grande Subprovinces of the
Superior Province. Rock units from the Opinaca Subprovince occur in the north-eastern corner of the Éléonore Mine area. Lithologies are dominated by granite, granodiorites and heterogeneous assemblages of pegmatites, tonalites and
granites from the Janin Intrusive Suite intermixed with partially migmatized paragneiss from the Laguiche Complex. The structural grain is oriented in a north-westerly direction evolving to an east–west grain toward the east part of the
Éléonore Mine area. 

Rock units belonging to the La Grande Subprovince west of the Opinaca-La Grande comprise most of the Éléonore Mine area and host the Roberto deposit. The Roberto deposit is hosted in polydeformed greywacke units in contact with
aluminosilicate-bearing greywacke and thin conglomerate units. The 1.9 kilometres long crescent shape of the deposit is believed to be the result of F2 folding. To date, mineralization has been intersected to a vertical depth of 1,400 metres.
Gold-bearing zones are generally 5 to 6 metres in true thicknesses, varying from 2 metres to more than 20 metres locally. All zones remain open at depth. 

Information from production drilling and underground mapping has shown that folding in the southern area edge of the main shoot is tighter than previously interpreted. The close folding that resulted in increased mining dilution during 2015 seems to
be limited to within a 50 metres corridor. 

The numerous subparallel mineralized zones are characterized by gold-bearing quartz-dravite-arsenopyrite veinlets, contained within quartz-microcline-biotite-dravite-arsenopyrite-pyrrhotite auriferous replacement zones. Sulphide concentrations
within the auriferous zones vary from 2% to 5%, with the main sulphides being arsenopyrite, löllingite, pyrrhotite and pyrite.
 Relationships between the nearby diorite and pegmatite intrusions and the gold mineralization event are still
 unknown. 

The knowledge of the deposit setting and lithologies, and of the mineralization style and its structural and alteration controls, is sufficient to support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation. Prospects and targets are at an earlier stage
of exploration, and the lithologies, structural, and alteration controls on mineralization are currently insufficiently understood to support estimation of Mineral Resources.

Exploration 

Exploration in support of mine development has included prospecting, mapping, ground induced polarization and magnetic surveys, a Hummingbird electromagnetic survey, grab and rock chip sampling, soil sampling, trench and channel sampling, core
drilling, metallurgical test work, mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates, baseline environmental, geotechnical and hydrological studies, and technical studies. 
The exploration programs completed to date are appropriate to the style of the
 deposits and prospects within the Éléonore Mine. The exploration and research work supports the genesis and affinity interpretations. There is considerable remaining exploration potential in the vicinity of the current mining
 operations. 

102

Until the summer of 2017, the main focus of the exploration activities was to extend the Roberto deposit at depth and laterally to increase Mineral Reserves. The greater Éléonore area outside the mining lease were not subject to
significant exploration work until late 2016. From 2016 onward, extensive mapping, trenching, induced polarisation, till sampling and some drilling have been conducted over the Éléonore Mine area. Several targets have been identified
and advanced. Exploration is planned to continue with drilling of some identified targets with accelerated programs planned for 2019 to 2020. 

Drilling 

As of November 30, 2018, a total of 10,133 surface and underground drill holes (approximately 1,523,791 metres) had been completed by VGM and Goldcorp. Of these, a total of 351 holes (105,635 metres) were completed by VGM and 9,782 holes (1,418,156
metres) by Goldcorp. 

Drilling includes 1,436,883 metres of exploration and delineation drilling; 70,966 metres of geotechnical drilling; 1,281 metres for hydrological/water bore purposes; and 1,119 metres for metallurgical purposes. Condemnation drilling as well as
drilling to support the locations of planned infrastructure was completed from May 1, 2010 to October 31, 2012, for a total of 13,542 metres. Exploration drilling between 2017 and 2018 aimed to better define the mineralized zones between 400 metres
and 1,300 metres below surface. This drilling remains ongoing. Results of the drilling appear to confirm the continuity of the geological model as interpreted. Since January 2013, exploration and delineation drilling has been exclusively done from
underground infrastructure. 

All core holes were drilled on sections spaced approximately 25 metres apart in most parts of the deposit. Drill hole spacing of 25 metres by 25 metres occurs over the bulk of the orebody to a depth of approximately 1,200 metres below surface. Below
1,200 metres, down to approximately 1,300 metres, a core hole spacing of 100 metres by 100 metres is usually observed. Only a few drill holes have been drilled below 1,200 metres. The deeper boreholes intersected the mineralized horizons at a depth
of approximately 1,580 metres below surface. For definition drilling, drill hole spacing is generally 12.5 metres by 12.5 metres inside the existing 25 metre drill spacing, as permitted by the mine development schedule. In 2017, infill drilling at a
25 metre by 25 metre drill spacing was completed in Horizon 5 and Horizon 6, in the central portion (Main Ore Shoot and South Ore Shoot). Definition drilling at 12.5 metre by 12.5 metre spacing commenced late in 2017 in Horizon 5 with the opening of
the 950 and 980 haulage drift and is ongoing. 

Standardized logging forms and geological legends were developed for the Éléonore Mine in acQuire database software. Rock quality designation is completed in sequence prior to geological logging and in the pre-feasibility period; full
geotechnical logging was completed on some drill holes. Geological logging use standard procedures and collect information on mineralization, lithological breaks, alteration boundaries, and major structures. All drill core is photographed. Some
drill holes are oriented for structural measurements. Core recovery is acceptable for all drill programs. 

Upon completion of a hole, surface drill hole collars were surveyed using a differential global position system instrument by in-house technicians. Underground drill holes are surveyed using a Leica TS15 robotized station. 

Downhole surveys were carried out by the drill contractor for dip and deviation using a Reflex instrument. 

Drill data are typically verified prior to Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation by running a software program check. 

Sample intervals were determined by the geological relationships observed in the core and vary between 0.3 metres and 1.25 metres. An attempt was made to terminate sample intervals at lithological and mineralization boundaries. 

Specific gravity data were collected by Goldcorp’s personnel until the end of 2011. The specific gravity database contains 11,923 specific gravity results that were determined on core samples. A specific gravity
of 2.77 was used for all veins. The specific gravity database is currently sufficient to provide a reliable assessment of the variability of the specific gravity across the deposit and across the various rock types. 

103

The quantity and quality of the lithological, geotechnical, collar, and down-hole survey data collected during the exploration and infill drill programs completed by VGM and Goldcorp are sufficient to support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve
estimation. 

Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification 

Exploration and infill core samples were analyzed by independent laboratories using industry-standard methods for gold analysis, including, but not limited to:

Between January 2007 and April 2014, ALS Chemex Labs Ltd. (“ALS Chemex”) in Val-d’Or, Quebec was the primary laboratory, which is accredited under ISO 17025 and 9001/2008 and independent of Goldcorp.

Between April 2014 and February 2017, exploration and infill sample preparation and assay were performed by Accurassay Laboratories Inc. (“Accurassay”) in Rouyn-Noranda, Québec, which is accredited under ISO 17025 and
independent of Goldcorp.

Between September 2017 and April 2018, exploration and infill sample preparation and assays were performed by Swastika Laboratories Ltd. (“Swaslabs”) in Swastika, Ontario, which is accredited under ISO 17025 and independent of
Goldcorp.

From April 2018 to date, Activation Laboratories Ltd. (“Actlabs”) has been used as the primary laboratory. Laboratory locations used include Ancaster, Timmins, Thunder Bay and Geraldton, Ontario. These laboratories hold either ISO
9001 or ISO 17025 accreditations and are independent of Goldcorp.

Goldcorp’s in-house laboratory started operation in February 2014 and begin to process muck, chips and definition drilling samples. The in-house laboratory has a total capacity of approximately 500 samples per day. Overflow and other
production samples were sent to ALS Chemex, Accurassay, Swaslabs or Actlabs. During the period from February to September 2017, the mine laboratory acted as the primary laboratory for definition drill sample.

Metallurgical testwork has been done at a number of laboratories, but was primarily performed by SGS Laboratories. Sample preparation for samples that support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation has followed a similar procedure for all
VGM and Goldcorp drill programs. The preparation procedure is in line with industry-standard methods for a clastic sediment-hosted stockwork-disseminated gold deposit in an orogenic setting. 

The primary gold analytical method was fire assay with either an atomic absorption spectrometry finish or microwave plasma atomic emission spectroscopy finish. Depending on the external laboratory, values above either 3.0 g/t gold or 10 g/t gold
received a gravimetric finish. Goldcorp’s in-house laboratory re-assays above 34 g/t gold with a gravimetric finish. 

The collected sample data adequately reflect deposit dimensions, true widths of mineralization, and the style of the deposits. 

VGM and Goldcorp maintained a QA/QC program for the Éléonore Mine. This comprised the submission of analytical standard reference materials, duplicates and blanks. QA/QC submission rates meet industry-accepted standards of insertion
rates. No material sample biases were identified by the QA/QC programs. 

104

The results of the QA/QC programs did not indicate any problems
with the analytical programs. Accordingly, Goldcorp has concluded that the drill
core gold analyses are acceptably accurate and precise to support Mineral
Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation. 
Sample security has relied upon the fact that the samples were
always attended or locked in the logging facility. Chain-of-custody procedures
consisted of filling out sample submittal forms that were sent to the laboratory
with sample shipments to make certain that all samples were received by the
laboratory. Boxes are individually identified, and core is measured to ensure
correct sample definition. Core is stored at the core logging facility until it
is logged by professional geologists. As soon as the logging is complete, the
core is bagged in individual samples and put into pallets to be delivered to the
laboratory. Current sample storage procedures and storage areas are consistent
with industry standards. 
The quality of the gold analytical data is sufficiently
reliable to support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation and that
sample preparation, analysis, and security are generally performed in accordance
with exploration best practices and industry standards. 
A reasonable level of verification has been completed, and no
material issues would have been left unidentified from the programs undertaken.
Data verification programs completed on the data collected from the Éléonore
Mine adequately support the geological interpretations, and the quality of the
analyses and the analytical database, and therefore support the use of the data
in Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation. 
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
Metallurgical testwork has included chemical analyses, acid
neutralization potential tests, semi-qualitative petrography, X-ray diffraction,
comminution testwork (including standard bond, crushing work index, abrasion
index, ball mill work index tests), semi-autogenous grind mill work index tests,
Isamill signature plots, bench-scale flotation tests, Knelson/Laplante
gravity-recoverable gold testwork, grade variability recovery testwork,
establishment of a reagent suite, evaluation of intensive cyanide leach
processing of flotation concentrates, cyanide leach tests on gravity tailings,
cyanide backfill tests, pilot plant runs, cyanide destruction using the sulphur
dioxide/air process, thickening and filtration tests. 
Milling operations commenced in September 2014 and the first
gold pour occurred in October 2014. Since 2014, more than 6.75 million tonnes of
material from a wide variety of areas and depths has been processed. No
correlation between metallurgical response and sample origin or position within
the orebody has been established. 
Current plans assume long-term average metallurgical recoveries
of 92.0 to 92.5%, which are consistent with the results of previous testwork as
well as operational experience. 
Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource Estimates
The following table sets forth the gold Mineral Reserve
estimations for the Éléonore Mine effective June 30, 2018:

 
 Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves
 (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6) 
 
 Category 
 Tonnes (millions) 
 Grade (g/t) 
 Au (millions of ounces) 
 
 Proven 
 3.65
 
 5.97
 
 
 0.70 
 
 Probable 
 14.14 
 5.61
 
 
 2.55 
 
 Proven + Probable
 
 17.78 
 5.69
 
 
 3.25 

 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Reserves are classified as Proven and
 Probable and are based on the CIM Definition Standards. Proven Mineral
 Reserves include stockpile material.
 
 (2) 
 
 Mineral Reserves are based on a gold price of US$1,200
 per ounce, an economic function that includes variable operating costs and
 metallurgical recovery of 93%, and a US$ exchange rate of
 C$1.30.
105

 
 (3) 
 
 The global cut-off grade is 3.6 g/t (in situ). Total
 average US$ operating costs in the peak years of the LOM (as defined
 below) 2018 are $107.50 per tonne (mining: $59.41 per tonne; processing:
 $27.75 per tonne; G&A: $20.34 per tonne).
 
 (4) 
 
 An overall dilution of 15% is applied to the stopes using
 zero grade.
 
 (5) 
 
 Mineral Reserves take into account mining recoveries that
 range from 85% to 95% depending on geotechnical risk.
 
 (6) 
 
 Numbers may not add up due to
rounding.
Goldcorp is not aware of any material environmental,
permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing, political or
other relevant factors that would reasonably be expected to materially affect
the Mineral Reserve estimate that are not documented in the Éléonore Report.
Factors that may affect the Mineral Reserve estimates are geological complexity
impacting grade; geotechnical and design parameters changes impacting dilution
and mining recovery factors; lower mill recovery in new mining areas;
fluctuations in commodity price and exchange rate; and mining costs assumptions.

The following table sets forth the gold Mineral Resource
estimations for the Éléonore Mine effective June 30, 2018:

 
 Measured and Indicated Mineral
 Resources (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6) (excluding
 Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves) 
 
 Category 
 Tonnes (millions) 
 Grade (g/t) 
 Au (millions of ounces) 
 
 Measured 
 0.79
 
 6.15
 
 0.16
 
 
 Indicated 
 2.39
 
 4.67
 
 0.36
 
 
 Measured +
 Indicated 
 3.18
 
 5.03
 
 0.51
 
 
 Inferred 
 3.19
 
 5.76
 
 0.59
 

 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Resources are classified as Measured,
 Indicated and Inferred, and are reported using the CIM Definition
 Standards.
 
 (2) 
 
 All Mineral Resources are reported exclusive of those
 Mineral Resources that were converted to Mineral Reserves. Mineral
 Resources that are not Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic
 viability.
 
 (3) 
 
 A minimum true thickness of 2.5 metres was applied for
 all Mineral Resource estimates, using the grade of the adjacent material
 when assayed or a value of zero when not assayed.
 
 (4) 
 
 A top cut varying from 50 g/t to 140 g/t (80 g/t for the
 dilution envelope) was applied to assay grades prior to compositing grades
 for interpolation into model blocks using Ordinary Kriging (OK), and
 inverse distance weighting to the second power (ID2) methods and was based
 on 2 metre composites within a block model made of 5 metre long x 5 metre
 wide x 5 metre high blocks. Average specific gravity (SG) is
 2.77.
 
 (5) 
 
 Mineral Resources are reported using a 2.7 g/t gold
 cut-off grade, which is based on assumptions of a US$1,400 per ounce gold
 price, long-hole stoping underground mining methods, a life-of-mine
 metallurgical recovery of 93%, and a total mining cost of $107.50/t
 (comprising the following costs: mining: $59.41/t; processing: $327.75/t;
 G&A: of $20.34/t (LOM 2018).
 
 (6) 
 
 Numbers may not add up due to
rounding.
Goldcorp is not aware of any material environmental,
permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-economic, marketing, political or
other relevant factors that would reasonably be expected to materially affect
the Mineral Resource estimate that are not documented in the Éléonore Report.

Key areas of uncertainty that may materially impact the Mineral
Resource estimate include geological complexity including folding and faulting
of vein material between drill hole intercepts; commodity price assumptions;
metal recovery assumptions; hydrological constraints; and rock mechanics
(geotechnical) constraints. 
There is upside potential for the estimates if mineralization
that is currently classified as Inferred can be upgraded to higher-confidence
Mineral Resource categories. Core drilling is currently underway in support of
potential confidence category upgrades. 
On October 24, 2018, Goldcorp updated its mineral reserve and
resource estimates for the Éléonore mine as at June 30, 2018. Proven and
probable gold mineral reserves as of June 30, 2018 totaled 3.3 million ounces
(17.8 million tonnes grading 5.69 g/t Au), compared to 3.8 million ounces (19.6
million tonnes grading 6.02 g/t Au) as of June 30, 2017. Production depletion
accounted for a decrease of 0.3 million ounces, while the balance of the
adjustments to the geologic models was part of a continued effort to ensure only
profitable ounces were included in the reserve model. Measured and indicated
gold mineral resources as of June 30, 2018 were estimated at 0.5 million ounces
(3.2 million tonnes grading 5.03 g/t Au) compared to 1.3 million ounces (7.2
million tonnes grading 5.81 g/t Au) as of June 30, 2017. Inferred gold mineral
resources as of June 30, 2018 were estimated at 0.59 million ounces (3.2 million
tonnes grading 5.76 g/t Au) compared to 1.99 million ounces (8.45 million tonnes
grading 7.31 g/t Au) as of June 30, 2017. Goldcorp stated that mineral resources
were negatively impacted as the geologic modelling methodology that has been
applied to the mineral reserves has been applied to mineral resources, in
addition to economic stope optimization. Exploration continued to delineate and
expand the Main Ore Shoot and South Ore Shoot depth extensions. Goldcorp further
stated that the Éléonore mineralized horizon remains open down dip where it has
been drill tested 200 metres below the current mineral reserves to date and
exploration is ongoing to test for extensions and structural repetitions. 
106

Mining Operations

Mining operations exploit a complex orebody that consists of 117 different mineralized lenses with variable geometries and proximities. The mining method at the Éléonore Mine is long-hole stoping (down- hole drilling) longitudinal
retreat with consolidated backfill (pastefill) or unconsolidated rockfill. Operations have converted from using the longhole transverse mining method that was initially proposed to a longitudinal longhole retreat stoping method because that method
is better suited to the orebody geometry. 

For mine scheduling purposes, the vertical extent of the orebody is subdivided into two parts: the upper part of the orebody located between 65 metres and 650 metres below surface (referred to as the upper mine), and the lower part of the orebody
located between 650 metres and 1,370 metres below surface (referred to as the lower mine). Dividing the orebody into two mining sectors and seven mining horizons has accelerated the production start-up. 

Mining started from two horizons, the 440 metre Level and the 650 metre Level, and expanded to cover from the 110 metre Level to the 980 metres Level from surface. The current mine plan assumes that all the ore and waste from Horizon 1 (80 metre
Level to 230 metre Level) will be trucked to the surface as will material from the top of Horizon 2 (260–290 metre Level). Ore and waste from Horizons 2, 3, 4 and 5 (320–980 metre Level) will be either dumped down an ore pass (Horizon 2
and Horizon 3) or trucked to the 650 metre Level and hoisted by the production shaft. We are expanding the material handling system in the lower mine at the 1140 metre Level shaft station to support mining operations in Horizons 5 to 7 in 2020. 

An average production rate of 1,050 tonnes per day per stope is used throughout the mine. Currently, rates are between 800 and 2,500 tonnes per day per horizon, excluding panel sequence beginnings and ends. The material handling system and producing
horizons are capable of meeting an average 6,600 t/d production rate. 

Studies to increase and sustain the production rate will be conducted as more drilling information becomes available. Based on the current Mineral Reserves, the planned operation has an eight-year mine life to 2026. 

The production shaft excavation is complete to 1,190 metre depth, and the surface decline is progressing well, with the elevation in October 2018 being 1,130 metres from surface. The Gaumond shaft is completed to a depth of 715 metres and is only
used for ventilation purposes. 

The decline is currently used as the air exhaust and will continue to be so used when the final depth is reached and the ramp is complete. The main fresh ventilation raises are the Gaumond and production shafts. From both shafts, air is distributed
into two internal ventilation raises, one located in the northern mine area, the second in the southern mine area. Currently, the ventilation on demand (VOD) system is fully operational. 

107

The permanent pumping system is designed to be upgradable depending on the total water infiltration in the mine and also the mine plan. The system is designed to pump dirty water to the surface and consists of two main pumping stations on the 400
metre level and 650 metre level. 

Stope widths vary from 2.5 to 20 metres, have an average length of 25 metres, a maximum length of 45 metres, and can reach 30 metres in height. Ground support consists of various combinations of rebar bolts, friction bolts, D-bolts, cables, screen
and shotcrete depending on the rock quality and particular requirements of each heading. 

Stopes are backfilled with pastefill. Unconsolidated backfill is used whenever possible in order to avoid hoisting waste rock to the surface. The current paste backfill mixture consists of 70% mill tailings, 25% fine sulphide concentrate, and 4 to
7% binder. The sulphide tailing concentration can reach as much as 25% without having an effect on the paste strength. 

A fully-mechanized mining equipment fleet is used. Equipment includes scoop trams, dump trucks, mine service and personnel vehicles, jumbo drills, bolting platforms, scissor lifts, land cruiser and forklifts. The mine and fleet designs are
appropriate for the Mineral Reserves defined and the selected throughput rate. 

There is potential to extend the mine life and potentially sustain a 7,000 tonnes per day throughput rate if some or all of the Inferred Mineral Resources identified within the life-of-mine (“LOM”) production plan
(“LOMP”) can be upgraded to higher confidence Mineral Resource categories, and eventually to Mineral Reserves. Mineralization remains open in the northern and southern extents of the Roberto orebody as well at depth. The deepest
drill hole encountering mineralization was at 1,500 metre depth; the current mine plan extends to 1,370 metre depth. 

As part of day-to-day operations, Goldcorp will continue to undertake reviews of the mine plan and consideration of alternatives to and variations within the plan. Alternative scenarios and reviews may be based on ongoing or future mining
considerations, evaluation of different potential input factors and assumptions, and corporate directives. 

Processing and Recovery Operations

Comminution consists of conventional three-stage crushing circuit followed by a single stage of closed- circuit ball milling, so that 80% (P80) is smaller than 65 micrometres. Within the ball milling circuit, a gravity concentration circuit
consisting of two Knelson Concentrators recovers coarse liberated gold, which is then leached in an Acacia reactor. 

Grinding circuit product is fed to a flotation circuit for separation of sulphide minerals into a sulphide-rich concentrate. The flotation concentrate, which contains most of the gold, is reground so that 80% P80 is smaller than 15 micrometres being
subjected to pre-oxidation and cyanidation. The flotation tails, which still contains a significant amount of gold, are also subjected to cyanidation in a separate circuit. 

In both cases, gold in solution is recovered by dedicated in carousel CIP circuits (one for each leach circuit). Loaded carbon recovered from each CIP circuit is then stripped in a Zadra stripping circuit. Gold from the gold-loaded pregnant
solutions (including the one from the Acacia reactor) is then recovered by electrowinning and melted into doré bars. Carbon is regenerated and returned to the CIP circuits. 

The tails from each cyanidation circuit are detoxified in a conventional sulphur dioxide/air cyanide destruction circuit. Sulphide tailings, along with a portion of non-sulphide tailings, are returned to the underground mine in the form of paste
backfill. The remaining non-sulphide tailings are filtered and trucked to the tailings management facility (“TMF”). The TMF is completely lined and designed for collection of contact water, which is sent to treatment. The
TMF’s current design allows for storage of 22 Mt of tailings, which is sufficient for the current LOM. 

108

The crushing area is designed for a capacity of 8,500 tonnes per day, including waste crushing (1,500 tonnes per day), while the other plant areas are designed for a processing capacity of 7,000 tonnes per day at 95% availability (2.55 Mt/a). 

Infrastructure, Permitting and Compliance Activities

The James Bay region is surrounded by extensive hydroelectric facilities and associated infrastructure, the closest of which are the Sarcelle hydroelectric facility located 40 kilometres due west of the Éléonore Mine on the Opinaca
Reservoir and the Eastmain Dam located 70 kilometres to the south. Power is supplied by Hydro-Québec through a 120 kilovolt overhead electrical power line that was supplied and installed by Hydro-Québec specifically for the
Éléonore Mine. A 120/25 kilovolt substation on site distributes the power required for the mining infrastructure. 

Key infrastructure on site includes the underground mine, a processing plant, temporary waste rock storage facilities, TMF, fuel storage and distribution facilities, industrial water treatment plant (IWTP), a permanent camp that can accommodate 400
people, an administration building, warehouse and garage facilities, assay laboratory, airstrip, and a concrete plant. 

Mining-related infrastructure comprise the Gaumond shaft, the production shaft, a seven kilometre long access ramp, a shaft loading station, ore and waste passes, ore and waste storage bins, a rock breaker/grizzly arrangement, a transfer drift, an
exhaust raise, the mine ventilation system and a mine dewatering system. 

The main process infrastructure consists of a crushing plant, ore storage bins, a grinding and gravity gold recovery circuit, a flotation circuit, a flotation tails cyanidation and CIP circuit, a flotation concentrate regrinding, cyanidation and CIP
circuit, a Zadra stripping circuit, a gold refinery, concentrate and tailings dewatering circuits and a paste backfill system. 

Goldcorp has completed baseline studies in support of the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA; or ESIE in French) and is carrying out continuous monitoring studies to support project permitting and various commitments. For the
Éléonore Mine, the major issues identified include the potential impacts on the environment, the proper management of tailings and waste water, access (roads, airports), social acceptability and management of the post-reclamation site.
These issues have been addressed and mitigated through a combination of baseline data collection, appropriate engineering and project design studies, and public consultation. 

The Éléonore operations currently hold all required permits to operate, including environmental permits. Permits are renewed as required. Environmental liabilities associated with the project are those expected to be associated with an
underground mine in Northern Canada. 

Key elements for the mine operations include the proper management of tailings and waste water, access (roads, airports), social acceptability and post-reclamation management. A sustainability management system is in place, addressing these elements
and allowing rigorous management. Goldcorp is of the opinion that these issues have been addressed and mitigated through a combination of baseline data collection, appropriate engineering and project design studies, and public consultation. The
Éléonore Mine operations currently holds all permits required to operate, including environmental permits. 

The Éléonore Mine operations are located on traditional family territories of the Cree Nation of Wemindji, and within the Municipality of Eeyou-Isthee-James Bay. The operations are located entirely in Cree territory, or Eeyou Istchee,
on Category III lands belonging to the Quebec Government and subject to the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement (JBNQA). A collaboration agreement was signed with the Cree Nation of Wemindji in February 2011. 

109

Capital and Operating Costs
Capital and operating cost estimates were prepared by
Goldcorp’s staff. The capital cost estimates are based on a combination of
quotes, vendor pricing, and Goldcorp’s experience with similar-sized operations.
The capital costs are based on the 2018 mine construction data and budgetary
figures and quotes provided by suppliers. Capital cost estimates include funding
for infrastructure, mobile equipment, development, and miscellaneous costs.
Infrastructure requirements were incorporated into the estimates as needed.
Sustaining capital costs reflect current price trends. The total LOM capital
estimate is $389 million, comprising $365 million of sustaining capital and $24
million of expansionary capital. 

 
 Area 
 Life-of-Mine (US$ million)
 
 
 Sustaining 
 365
 
 
 Expansionary 
 24
 
 
 Total 
 389 
Note: Estimate is from 2019 for LOM. Totals may not sum due to
rounding. 
Operating cost estimates from first principles for major items
and allowances or estimates for minor costs. Labour cost estimation is based on
Goldcorp’s 2018 salary scale and fringe benefits in force. Mining consumables
are based on 2018 costs and contracts. The Éléonore Mine is located at a remote
site. Costs for camp accommodation, meals, employee travel, and site security
were included in the G&A component of the estimate. An average overall unit
cost of $113.38 per tonne was estimated, comprising $29.29 per tonne for
processing, including backfill and tailings treatment and transportation, $62.19
per tonne for mining operations, and $21.89 per tonne for G&A. Exploration
expenditures are not included in the operating costs. 

 
 Area 
 Life-of-Mine ($ per tonne)
 
 
 Process Plant 
 29.29 
 
 Mining Operations
 
 62.19 
 
 G&A 
 21.89 
 
 Total 
 113.38 
Note: Estimate is from 2019 for LOM. Totals may not sum due to
rounding. 
Exploration, Development and Production
The average production rate for 2018 was approximately 5,000
tonnes per day, with the second half of 2018 in ramp-up phase and finishing the
year at over 6,500 tonnes per day. The mine is expected to achieve the LOM plan
peak years average production rate of 6,600 tonnes per day in 2019. 
The exploration drilling program in 2019 is a two-phase work
program, which consists of exploration and delineation drilling. The first work
phase is to investigate zones within the Roberto area that could be rapidly
evaluated for potential for Mineral Resource estimation and potential conversion
to Mineral Reserves once drill information is available. The second work phase
is to support potential conversion of Mineral Resources to Mineral Reserves.
Drilling at depth and laterally is also required to identify mineralization that
may support estimation of additional Mineral Resource. 
The two work phases are independent and can be conducted
concurrently. Neither phase is dependent on completion of the other. 
At the Éléonore Mine, gold production for 2019 is expected to
be in the range of 350,000 to 380,000 ounces.
110

SCHEDULE D - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE RENARD
DIAMOND MINE
Most Recent Technical Report
The most recent technical report filed by Stornoway in
accordance with NI 43-101 is entitled “Updated Renard Diamond Project Mine Plan
and Mineral Reserve Estimate, Québec, Canada, NI 43-101 Technical Report” (the
“Renard 2016 Technical Report”) dated effective December 31, 2015.
Reference should be made to the full text of the Renard Technical Report. The
Renard Technical Report is not and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by
reference in this Annual Information Form. References to the “project” or
“property” refer to the Renard Diamond Mine as defined in the Renard Technical
Report. 
Information Contained in this Section 
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from (a) the Renard Technical Report; (b) Stornoway’s most recent
annual information forms as of the date hereof; and (c) various news releases
publicly filed by Stornoway which may all be consulted under Stornoway’s issuer
profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and none of which is nor shall be deemed to be
incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form. 
The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein. Except where otherwise stated, the disclosure in this section
relating to operations on the Renard Diamond Mine is based on information
publicly disclosed by Stornoway and information/data available in the public
domain as at March 28, 2019 (except where stated otherwise), and none of this
information has been independently verified by Osisko. Osisko considers that
Stornoway has publicly disclosed all scientific and technical information that
is material to Osisko.
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited access to properties included in its asset portfolio. Additionally,
Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which it is not
permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the operators of the
properties and their qualified persons to provide information to Osisko or on
publicly available information to prepare required disclosure pertaining to
properties and operations on the properties on which Osisko holds interests and
generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such information.
Although Osisko does not have any knowledge that such information may not be
accurate, there can be no assurance that such third party information is
complete or accurate. Some information publicly reported by operators may relate
to a larger property than the area covered by Osisko’s interest. Osisko’s
interests often cover less than 100%, and sometimes only a portion of, the
publicly reported Mineral Reserves, Mineral Resources and production of the
property. Osisko shall not be held liable for any eventual misrepresentations in
any scientific or technical information excerpted from any technical information
publicly filed by Stornoway. 
Summary and Project Status
The Renard Diamond Mine, part of the Foxtrot Property, is 100%
owned and operated by SDCI, a wholly owned subsidiary of Stornoway. The project
is subject to a 2% direct royalty interest on diamonds, held by Diaquem. In
addition, the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds (as
amended by the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement) has been entered into by
FCDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of SDCI, with the Renard Streamers.
The project site is located in the James Bay region, central
Québec, Canada, approximately 70 km north of the Otish Mountains and some 360 km
north-northeast from the mining town of Chibougamau. The site is located at
longitude 72°11’ West and latitude 52°49’ North; and benefits from an all
year-round land and air access. Operations can be conducted year-round. 
111

The execution plan proposes concepts and practices that are consistent with those in the Canadian diamond mining industry. The project design contemplates open pit mining of the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 65 kimberlite pipes, followed by
underground mining of the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 kimberlite pipes by blasthole shrinkage (BHS). Ore was initially processed at the process plant nameplate capacity of 2.16 Mt per annum, and subsequently expanded to 2.5 Mt per annum, with
three stages of crushing and a concentration process in two different stages, namely a large diamond recovery (LDR) process and a dense media separation (DMS). Each of the LDR and DMS produce a concentrate that is treated in a secure diamond
recovery facility using diamond differentiation techniques based on magnetic, X-ray, laser Raman and ultra-violet technologies, with hand-sorting as the final de-falsing step to produce a nominally 98% diamond by weight product at final sorting. The
non-diamond product generated by each of the LDR and DMS is further sized, and the coarser size fraction (+6mm) is recirculated through the HPGR to release locked diamonds. Process plant design and equipment selections were based on bulk sample
plant operational data, test work, experience from other operations and proven technology to minimize diamond breakage. See “Recent Developments - Ore-Waste Sorting, and Mining Method” for modifications made to the mining method and
improvements made to the processing. 

Supporting infrastructure includes an effluent treatment plant, potable water treatment plant, a power plant (comprised of eight natural gas generators of 2,050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of 1,800 KW each), LNG and diesel tank
farms, LNG regasification plant, 370 bed accommodation complex, a six-bay maintenance facility, mine offices, an explosive storage and handling area, a 1,494 meter gravel airstrip and telecommunication systems. 

Processed kimberlite is disposed of through a dry stack facility and the management of surface runoff water is facilitated through a system of peripheral drainage ditches designed to direct runoff water to an excavated catch basin for treatment, if
required, before release to the environment. Suspended solids are determined to be the main concern for water treatment. Storage capacity of the catch basin accommodates spring runoff and a 100 year return storm event. Mine operations incorporate a
program of progressive reclamation that minimizes costs and allows timely monitoring of performance. Waste rock generated by mining will be re-introduced to the underground as backfill. See “Recent Developments - Processed Kimberlite
Containment Facility”. 

The Renard 2016 Technical Report describes a Mineral Reserve estimate of 22.3 million Carats (33.4 Mt at an average grade of 67 cpht), based on mining, processing and infrastructure already in place or on designs as detailed, and incorporating
current geological and diamond revenue data. Inferred Resources are considered too geologically speculative to have mining and economic considerations applied to them and to be categorized as Mineral Reserves and are not included in the Renard 2016
Technical Report. 

Stornoway completed a financial analysis for the Renard Diamond Mine, reflected in the Renard 2016 Technical Report. For the purposes of the Renard 2016 Technical Report financial model, net-present valuations are presented on net cash flow after
operating costs, marketing costs, net of all royalties, costs incurred under the Mecheshoo Agreement, with the effective revenue impairment associated with the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds and on an unlevered basis.
After-Tax NPV (7%) is estimated at $974 million, and $1,349 million on a pre-tax basis, in real dollar terms. After-tax NPV reflect the deduction of federal and Québec income taxes and applicable mining duties. See “Description
of Business - Cornerstone Assets - Renard Stream (Stornoway Diamond Corporation)” for details on amendments made to the Renard Streaming Agreement on October 2, 2018 and “Recent Developments - Diamond Marketing and Sales” for
updates on diamond price estimates since the Renard 2016 Technical Report. 

All elements of the project development plan, including the required infrastructure, mine design, process plant design, waste disposal infrastructure and cost estimation, represent the current estimate for life of mine operations. The resulting
information therefore met all of the applicable requirements for conversion of Indicated Mineral Resources to a Probable Mineral Reserve estimate. The Probable Mineral Reserve estimate was determined in accordance with CIM Definition Standards
classification. Considering the risks inherent in all kimberlite deposits, such as sampling for geological continuity, diamond grade and diamond revenue determination, the Indicated portion of the Mineral Resources is considered suitable for the estimate of Probable Reserve. The authors of the report
recommended to perform additional work in order to reduce the uncertainties in
the geomechanical and design analysis and to continually review these analysis
to ensure they remain valid over time. They also recommended to test processed
kimberlite material post production to confirm geochemical classification. There
is no certainty that the results described in the Renard 2016 Technical Report
will be realized.

112

Property Description and Location
The Renard Diamond Mine is part of the Foxtrot Property
situated in the Monts Otish (Otish Mountains) region of the province of Québec,
Canada, 820 km north of the city of Montreal and 360 km north-northeast of the
mining town of Chibougamau. The principal access point for employees,
contractors and visitors to the project is via the Renard airport, specifically
built for the use of the Renard Diamond Mine and located along the Renard
Diamond Mine access road 10 km away from the Renard Diamond Mine gate, with
goods and services delivered to site by road on the all-weather Renard Mine
Road/Route 167 Extension, the construction of which was completed by Stornoway
in 2014. The closest settlement is Témiscamie, on the shore of Lac Albanel. The
regional centre of Chibougamau acts as staging posts for the trans-shipment of
materials and personnel. Power is provided by a power plant (comprised of eight
natural gas generators of 2050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of
1800 KW each). Daily deliveries of LNG by tanker truck from Montreal are made
possible by the all-season Renard Mine Road/Route 167 Extension to the project.
On site LNG storage capacity is rated at 10 days of supply at full project
production. 
The Foxtrot Property comprises 650 claims (33,629.95 ha) in
four blocks (one large contiguous landholding of 630 claims plus three smaller
blocks), mining lease BM 1021 (143.71 ha) and a surface lease number 1303 10 000
(199.85 ha). 
The claims are registered in the name of SDCI as a 100%
interest and at the effective date of the Renard 2016 Technical Report, all
claims were reported to be in good standing. 
The claim holder has the exclusive right to search for all
mineral substances in the public domain, with the exception of petroleum,
natural gas, brine and loose surface materials. Claims are valid for a two-year
period and can be renewed every two (2) years. Renewal fees are fixed by
regulation. In order to maintain tenure, exploration work equivalent in amounts
also determined by regulation are required depending on the number of terms of
renewal a claim has undergone. Table 1 details the work requirements per renewal
period north of the 52 parallel as set by regulation at the time of the Renard
2016 Technical Report. When the work carried out is insufficient, or if work was
not carried out, the titleholder may pay an amount equivalent to the required
amount in lieu of work. Alternatively, work expenditures that are in excess of
the amount required for the term on a claim can be transferred to other
contiguous claims that are within 4.5 km of its radius or can be credited
towards future renewals.
Table 1: Work Requirement per Renewal Period

 
 
 
 
 Surface area of claim 
 
 
 Term 
 Less than 25 ha 
 25 to 45 ha 
 More than 45 ha 
 
 1 
 $48
 
 $120
 
 $135 
 
 2 
 $160
 
 $400
 
 $450 
 
 3 
 $320
 
 $800
 
 $900 
 
 4 
 $480
 
 $1,200 
 $1,350 
 
 5 
 $640
 
 $1,600 
 $1,800 
 
 6 
 $750
 
 $1,800 
 $1,800 
 
 7 or more 
 $1,000 
 $2,500 
 $2,500 
Mining lease BM 1021 was granted to SDCI on October 16, 2012,
is valid for a period of 20 years (with three 10-year renewal periods and for
5-year renewal periods thereafter), and, at the time of the Renard
2016 Technical Report, was subject to annual payments set at $46.50/ha. This mining lease encompasses the mine site and surface operations (excluding the processed kimberlite containment area).
113

The surface lease number 1303 10 000 encompassing the processed kimberlite containment area was also granted on October 16, 2012, and at the time of the Renard 2016 Technical Report had yearly renewal fees at $99.00/ha. A number of additional
surface leases were granted to SDCI to cover various requirements of the Renard Diamond Mine.

SDCI holds a 100% interest in the property, subject to a 2% direct gross revenue royalty on future life of mine diamond production in favour of Diaquem. 

Environment

The Renard Diamond Mine is located in a region with a subarctic climate. Temperatures range from summer maximums of +35°C to winter minimums of -45°C. Abundant precipitation falls in the form of rain and snow. Total annual precipitation
averages around 80–100 cm. Operations can be conducted year-round.

The Renard Diamond Mine study area is located in the spruce-lichen bioclimatic domain. In this domain, black spruce punctuates the carpet of lichen, while jack pine and balsam fir reach the northern limit of their distribution range. 

Topographic relief within the Foxtrot Property consists of steep-sided hills with rounded tops separated by muskeg-covered valleys. Elevations range between 450 masl and 550 masl. Lakes, ponds and small rivers are common. 

The Renard Diamond Mine study area is located on Trapline M-11, which covers the entire Foxtrot Property. Traditional hunting is practiced by Crees in this area and targets mainly moose and waterfowl. 

Government and Social License

The Foxtrot Property is located within the region of Northern Québec governed by the JBNQA, a land claims agreement executed by the government of Québec, the government of Canada, the GCC and the Northern Québec Inuit
Association, among others. This agreement defines the social and environmental protection regimes for the regions of James Bay and Nunavik. The JBNQA provides for three categories of land, Categories I to III, each with specifically defined rights.
Category III lands are public lands where Cree communities have certain rights, particularly in regard to trapping, hunting, fishing and the development of outfitter operations. Members of the CNM undertake hunting, fishing and trapping activities
within the Foxtrot Property, with the Renard Kimberlite Pipes occurring in an area known to them as “yuus-kanchiisu-saakahiikan” (mild rock Ptarmigan Lake). More specifically, the Renard Kimberlite Pipes lie within the CNM trapline area
designated as M-11.

In February 2002, Québec and the Cree Nation signed a fifty year political and economic agreement known as La Paix des Braves. The GCC is the political body that represents approximately 14,500 Crees of Eastern James Bay and Southern
Hudson Bay in Northern Québec. The GCC has twenty members: a Grand Chief and Deputy-Grand Chief elected at large, the chiefs elected by each of the nine Cree communities of the territory, and one other representative from each community. The
CNM is the largest Cree community with 3,500 residents. 

On July 24, 2012, the Crees of Eeyou Istchee and the Gouvernement du Québec signed the Agreement on Governance in the Eeyou Istchee James Bay Territory. This agreement provides for the creation of the James Bay Regional Government,
replacing the Municipalité de Baie-James. The James Bay Regional Government is responsible for the management of Category III lands and exercises the same jurisdictions, functions, and authority on Category III lands in the Eeyou Istchee
James Bay Territory as those formerly attributed to the Municipalité de Baie-James. The James Bay Regional Government is directed by a Council composed of 11 Cree representatives (the Grand Chief of the Cree Nation Government along
with ten other designates from elected members of the Council of the Cree Nation Government), 11 Jamésien representatives (designated from among elected members of the councils of the enclave municipalities and the non-Crees residing within
the James Bay Regional Government’s territory), and one non-voting representative of the Québec government. Authorizations and permits required for the development of all industrial projects are provided by the James Bay Regional
Government. 

114

Since the early stages of the Renard Diamond Mine, Stornoway has developed and maintained significant communications and relations with stakeholders including: the CNM, the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee), tallymen of Trapline M11 and the
towns of Chibougamau, Chapais and the Municipality of James Bay. Public meetings, field visits, meetings with chiefs or mayors, environmental exchange group meetings, and business meetings with contractors and suppliers are amongst the many
activities held by Stornoway on a regular basis. Stornoway has opened offices in Mistissini and Chibougamau to facilitate communications with these parties. 

In March 2012, Stornoway completed negotiations with the CNM, the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Regional Authority on the Mecheshoo Agreement. The Mecheshoo Agreement is a binding agreement that governs the long-term
working relationship between Stornoway and the Cree parties during all phases of the Renard Diamond Mine. It provides for training, employment and business opportunities for the Crees during project construction, operation and closure, and sets out
the principles of social, cultural and environmental respect under which the project is managed. The Mecheshoo Agreement includes a mechanism by which the Cree parties will benefit financially from the success of the project on a long term basis,
consistent with the mining industry’s best practices for engagement with First Nations communities. 

In July 2012, Stornoway executed the Declaration of Partnership with the communities of Chibougamau and Chapais in the James Bay Region of Québec. The Declaration of Partnership is a statement of cooperation between the partners for the
responsible development of the Renard Diamond Mine based on the principles of environmental protection, social responsibility and economic viability. The Declaration of Partnership provides for the Renard Liaison Committee that addresses issues of
mutual interest such as communication, employment, and the economic diversification of local communities. In particular, the committee oversees initiatives to attract and retain new residents to the towns of Chibougamau and Chapais. 

Permitting

The Renard Diamond Mine was subject to the provincial and federal environmental and social assessment and review process under the JBNQA, the Environment Quality Act (Québec) and the CEAA. On December 28, 2011, Stornoway filed
the ESIA meeting the requirements of the provincial and federal guidelines and following that submission, public hearings on the project were held by the federal Canadian government and Québec government in June and August 2012, respectively.

On December 4, 2012, Stornoway received the global certificate of authorization for the Renard Diamond Mine from the MELCC (formerly the Québec Ministère du Développement Durable, de l’Environnement, de la Faune et des
Parcs), which certificate was periodically amended since then as the engineering and development plans of the Renard Diamond Mine refined. The certificate of authorization represents the principal regulatory approval that was required to
commence mine construction. On July 12, 2013, Stornoway received a positive environmental assessment decision for the Renard Diamond Mine from the CEAA. 

Under the Mining Act (Québec), the holder of mining rights has the responsibility to rehabilitate and restore the lands on which exploration and/or development activities have been carried out. This work must be completed in accordance
with a restoration plan pre-approved by the MERN. In December 2012 Stornoway received approval from the MERN of the rehabilitation plan for the Renard Closure Plan. Under the Mining Act (Québec), a financial guarantee must be submitted
to the MERN to guarantee 100% of the rehabilitation costs of a mining project, in accordance with a payment schedule prescribed by applicable regulation. On August 29, 2014, Stornoway arranged for a surety bond of up to $15.2 million to provide
a financial
guarantee to the MERN with respect to the Renard Closure Plan. The obligation to pay the first tranche of $7.6 million was met in August 2014; the second installment of $3.8 million was met in August 2015 and the third and last installment
in August 2016. See “Recent Developments - Closure Plan of the Renard Diamond Mine”. 

115

Since the beginning of the construction phase of the Renard Diamond Mine in July 2014, various additional operating permits have been sought for site specific activities under the authority of the overall global authorizations.

Project Geology

The project area is located on the south-eastern portion of the Superior Structural Province, bordered by Proterozoic rocks of the Labrador Trough in the east and the Grenville Province in the south. This portion of the Superior Craton is sometimes
referred to as the “Ungava Craton”. Proterozoic rocks of the Labrador Fold Belt in the east, the Cape Smith Fold Belt in the north and the Grenville Province in the south surround the project area. Northern portions of the project area
consist of north-northwest trending, plutonic and gneissic terranes. Based on metamorphic grade, mineralogy, lithology and aeromagnetic observations, the terranes appear to vary in width from 70 km to 150 km. 

The Foxtrot Property is situated between the La Grande greenstone (volcanic) belt to the north and the Eastmain greenstone (volcanic) belt to the south. Granite-gneiss and retrograde granulite gneiss are the predominant lithologies, with lesser
amounts of granite and granodiorite. Contained within the gneiss are relict metasedimentary and metavolcanic rock assemblages along with associated mafic and ultramafic intrusive rocks. The Otish Mountain and Mistassini groups of Proterozoic,
clastic, metasedimentary rocks overlie the Archean lithologies, marginal to the Grenville Province. Mafic and ultramafic intrusive rocks of variable affinities are more common in the southeast than in the southwest. 

Granite-gneiss and retrograde granulite gneisses of sedimentary origin are the predominant lithologies in the Property area; however, lesser granite and granodiorite may also be present. The gneisses may contain relict metasedimentary and
metavolcanic rock assemblages, as well as associated mafic and ultramafic intrusive rocks. Minor linear belts of supracrustal metavolcanic rocks occur throughout the area, generally trending east-west or west-northwest. Northwest-trending,
roterozoic Mistassini Swarm diabase and gabbro dykes up to 30 m wide cross-cut all lithologies. Isolated outliers of Proterozoic clastic metasedimentary rocks are present in the area. 

Metamorphic grade within the Foxtrot area is primarily amphibolite facies with local granulite facies being reported near Lac Minto. Higher-grade lithologies in the north are interpreted as supracrustal relicts dating to 3.1 Ga. Granite and granite
gneiss are dated at 2.7 Ga and local felsic and intermediate intrusive rocks are dated at 2.5 Ga. 

There are five known episodes of kimberlitic volcanism in Québec; from south to north, the kimberlite fields are Témiscamingue, Desmaraisville, Otish, Wemindji and Torngat. The Renard Cluster is considered to be part of the 550 to 641
Ma Otish kimberlitic volcanic event. 

Quaternary glacial cover in the area was controlled by the New Québec Ice Divide. From the divide, ice flowed north and northeast toward Ungava Bay and west to southwest toward Hudson Bay. Glacial lineaments are well developed and widespread.
Glacial overburden within the Foxtrot Property can be up to 34 m thick, but is on average 10 m thick in the area of the Renard Cluster. Glacial deposits consist of till, eskers, moraine and post-glacial sediments, and their orientation reflects ice
transport from the north-northeast. 

Exploration

All exploration has been carried out by Stornoway and its predecessor companies. 

116

Since the inception of the Foxtrot project, approximately 12,000 heavy mineral samples have been collected over a 400,000 km2 area of which some 8,140 lie within the current land holdings. Since 2000, approximately 274 ground magnetic
surveys (2,486 line kilometers), 204 ground electromagnetic surveys (328 line kilometers) and 37,450 line kilometers of airborne geophysical surveys have been completed on the Foxtrot Property. 

Structural mapping was undertaken in 2004 and 2006 to identify structural controls that could help locate more kimberlitic intrusions or dykes. The program results proved to be inconclusive. Geological mapping in October 2010 was to identify
large-scale feature of interest interpreted from geophysical data and aerial photographs. Overburden in targeted areas was cleared to expose the bedrock for mapping. The program was successful in highlighting two large faults and two smaller ones
within the proposed mine site. 

Mineralization

There are two types of diamond deposits: primary and secondary. Primary deposits are those in which the diamonds remain inside the original host rock (usually kimberlite) that conveyed them to the surface. Secondary deposits are formed when the
diamonds are eroded from the host rock and concentrated by the action of water into alluvial deposits (in rivers) or marine deposits (in beaches). The Renard kimberlites are primary deposits emplaced into granitic and gneissic host rocks. Extensive
sampling programs conducted between 2001 and 2014 have demonstrated that the kimberlites contain diamonds of potential economic interest. 

To date, nine kimberlite pipes have been identified over a 2 km2 area in the Renard Cluster (Renard 1 to Renard 10; with Renard 5 and Renard 6 forming one body, referred to as Renard 65). The kimberlite pipes are typically spaced between
50 m and 500 m from each other. Geophysical data and drill information from delineation and bulk sampling programs indicate that, in general, most of the Renard kimberlites are irregular and elliptical in plan view. Surface areas of the kimberlite
portion of the pipes range from 0.1 ha to 2.0 ha. The Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate describes Indicated/Inferred resources for the Renard 2, Renard 3, Renard 4, Renard 9 and Renard 65 pipes. The Renard 1, Renard 7 and Renard 10 pipes may
have economic potential and are classified as TFFE. Two laterally extensive kimberlite dyke systems, known as the Lynx and Hibou dykes, have been identified to the west and northwest of the pipe cluster, respectively. Portions of both dykes are
included in the mineral resource estimation. Additional dyke-like kimberlites have been discovered elsewhere on the property. These are not included in the mineral resource estimation but may warrant additional work at a later date.

The Renard kimberlite pipes comprise diatreme-zone to root-zone kimberlites, with overall similar internal geologies. These pipes can be classified as “typical” South-African-style kimberlites and contain a variety of phases that are
distinguishable from one another by differing macroscopic and microscopic properties as well as diamond grades. In most pipes, with the exception of Renard 3 and Renard 10, the dominant phase is a massive volcaniclastic kimberlite that can be
classified as tuffacitic kimberlite breccia. In general, these tuffasitic kimberlite breccias are extensively altered and have a massive texture. They consist of varying amounts of olivine, juvenile clasts and country rock xenoliths that are poorly
sorted, typically loosely packed and less commonly clast supported, all set within a highly altered interclast matrix. In many pipes an additional pipe-filling phase is present that is typically a more coherent or transitional kimberlite
characterized by lower country rock xenolith content and higher olivine content set within a crystalline to semi-crystalline groundmass. In all bodies, hypabyssal kimberlite is present as both dykes and irregularly shaped intrusions that are found
within each pipe infilling phase, between contacts of phases and along pipe margins. These are typically considered later stage intrusions. The hypabyssal kimberlite intrusions can vary in thickness from a few centimetres to several metres and, in
the case of the Lynx and Hibou dyke system, for example, can be laterally extensive.

The Renard pipe-like bodies are all associated with extensive cracked country rock created during the emplacement event and, with the exception of Renard 3 and Renard 8, have a significant CRB. The CCR consists of both broken and solid country rock
with small amounts of HK dykes and veins throughout, and minor zones containing kimberlite-derived constituents. The CRB typically lies between the main kimberlite units and the CCR and is characterized by dominantly broken and pulverized
clast-supported country rock,
with an overall dilution of 95% or greater. CRB contains up to 5% of kimberlitic components, present as olivine, rare altered magmaclasts and very rare garnet xenocrysts in the breccia matrix. The CRB contains a significant amount of additional
diamond-bearing kimberlitic material, in the form of late-stage, cross-cutting HK dykes, and helps to define the pipe shape.

117

Previous U-Pb dating of groundmass perovskite in HK dykes within Renard 1 suggested an emplacement age of 631.6 +/- 3.5 Ma (Birkett et al., 2004). Recent data obtained for the main rock-types in Renard 2 and Renard 3 using the same method suggest an
emplacement age of 640.5 +/- 2.8 Ma. 

Drilling

All drilling has been carried out under the control of Stornoway and predecessor company Ashton Mining of Canada, Inc. A total of 900 drill holes (132,719m) has been drilled on the property since 2001, comprising 36 RC holes (6,151m) and 631
exploration core holes (120,994m), 35 geomechanical holes (3,471 m), 133 geotechnical holes (1,219m) and 64 hydrogeological holes (884m). During 2007, and as part of the underground bulk sample work, 22 holes were drilled from underground on Renard
2 (1,508 m) and 21 holes from underground on Renard 3 (874 m). 

Vertical and angled holes were drilled through the kimberlite bodies, from which three-dimensional geological models were constructed for resource estimation. Drilling intersections are therefore not related to true thickness of mineralization. 

Between 2001 and 2002, drilling was completed for early-stage, exploration-focused programs for all the bodies except for Renard 9 and Renard 10, which were discovered in 2003 and 2005, respectively. From 2003, drilling was used primarily to support
advanced-stage project evaluation and deposit delineation by providing bulk and mini-bulk samples. Target exploration drilling was undertaken between 2001 and 2010. Drilling in 2011 and 2012 was focused on collecting data to support the proposed
mine plan and infrastructure design and drilling in 2014 concentrated on the Renard 2 kimberlite. 

While drilling for delineation or mini-bulk samples, detailed geotechnical observations have been recorded from exploration drill core. All holes are logged for geotechnical parameters such as total core recovery, rock quality designation, intact
rock strength, weathering/alteration, joint orientation, joint condition rating and fracture frequency in order to obtain rock mass quality values. Beginning in 2009, holes have been drilled to produce oriented core for the purpose of obtaining
orientation data from the core. Azimuth (Alpha) and inclination (Beta) measurements for all fractures in the oriented drill core were recorded to aid in the development of a geotechnical model of the Renard mine site. 

Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security

Three basic levels of progressively larger diamond sampling procedures are summarized below (caustic fusion sampling, mini-bulk sampling and bulk sampling), followed by descriptions of the comparable core, reverse circulation, trenching and
underground sample programs. Determining the moisture content of each sample prior to processing through caustic fusion, DMS or bulk density is necessary to allow an accurate dry weight of the kimberlite to be calculated. The dry bulk density
database comprises 2,127 bulk density records, consisting of 1,672 measurements from drill core and 455 from bulk sampling. When multiple measurements from the same sample, and multiple subsamples from the same rock are averaged, and the laboratory
QC checks removed, there are 1,770 spatially discrete density samples. Density variations did not show a correlation with country rock dilution, nor was there a clearly demonstrable change of density with increasing depth in the kimberlite pipes.

Caustic Fusion Sampling: The caustic fusion process is used to evaluate, characterize and correlate the diamond potential of individual kimberlite lithologies, and to provide data to facilitate the grade estimation process. The
objective of this type of test is to extract all diamonds greater than 0.1 mm in size, through chemical dissolution of the host rock sample. Individual samples may vary in size from a few kilograms to hundreds of kilograms, depending on the
available material and the specific purpose of the testing. Kimberlite may be collected from drill core, float boulders, subcrop, outcrop, underground exposures and subsamples of material in a process facility or a combination
thereof. Kimberlite is collected, described and recorded by the site geologists
following protocols in place at the time. Samples are individually numbered,
weighted, sealed in a tamper-resistant container appropriate for the volume of
material, and transported to the test facility by a combination of charter
aircraft and commercial couriers. Individual sample results from comparable
kimberlite units may be merged together to provide larger, statistically more
representative, samples. 

118

During the Renard Diamond Mine exploration programs,
microdiamonds were recovered by one internal facility situated in North
Vancouver, British Columbia (owned and operated by Stornoway) and four external
unrelated commercial facilities.
Mini-Bulk Sampling: Although there is no formal
industry-accepted definition of a “mini-bulk” sample, many companies would agree
that the term is generally used to refer to the processing of kimberlite
material up to several tens of tonnes. This material may be derived from drill
core, RC chips, boulders, subcrop, outcrop, trenches or underground workings.
Mini-bulk samples are usually processed through DMS equipment that, depending on
specifications and diamond recovery objectives of a particular program, may be
configured to recover diamonds of greater than 0.5 mm, 0.85 mm or 1.18 mm on
square-mesh screens. In some cases, caustic dissolution or other extraction
techniques may be utilized to recover the diamonds. All of Stornoway’s mini-bulk
samples were processed through DMS equipment, and the diamond content is based
upon stones retained on either 1.18 mm square-mesh screens or +1 DTC screens.
Stornoway’s mini-bulk sampling programs have used drill core, RC chips,
boulders, and surface trenches to source kimberlite material. 
Bulk Sampling: Although there is no formal
industry-accepted definition of a “bulk” sample, many companies would agree that
the term is generally used to refer to the processing of kimberlite material
exceeding several tens of tonnes. This material may be derived from drill core,
RC chips, boulders, subcrop, outcrop, trenches or underground workings. Bulk
samples are usually processed through DMS equipment that, depending on
specifications and diamond recovery objectives of a particular program, may be
configured to recover diamonds of greater than 0.85 mm or 1.18 mm on square-mesh
screens. In some cases, larger screen sizes or other extraction techniques may
be utilized for diamond recovery. All of Stornoway’s bulk samples reported
herein comprise either surface trench or underground sample material, and were
processed through DMS equipment. The reported diamond content is based upon
stones retained on either 1.18 mm square mesh or +1 DTC screens. 
Certain drill core collected during historical drill programs
was composited and treated for macrodiamond recovery. RC chip sampling programs
were undertaken with objectives that varied from collecting a large amount of
kimberlite to create representative samples, to characterizing the grade over
various depth intervals, to regular sampling intervals. Since 2005, several
thousand tonnes of kimberlitic material have been excavated from trenches on the
Renard 4 and Renard 65 bodies and Lynx, Hibou and North Anomaly dykes.
Macrodiamond sample results are summarized in Table 2. 
Table 2: Summary of Macrodiamond Sampling Results 

 
 Kimberlite Body 
 Sample Type 
 Year 
 Number of Samples 
 Weight (dry t) 
 Total Carats (+1 DTC)

 
 Renard 1 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 1

 0.3
 
 0.00
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003
 
 11
 
 10.0
 
 0.73
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 4

 2.9
 
 0.02
 
 
 Renard 2 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 7

 5.0
 
 3.29
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003
 
 8

 8.6
 
 5.24
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 9

 12.5
 
 13.45 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 16
 
 6.7
 
 4.96
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2006
 
 7

 2.8
 
 2.71
 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2004
 
 12
 
 171.2 
 146.96 
119

 
 Kimberlite Body 
 Sample Type 
 Year 
 Number of Samples 
 Weight (dry t) 
 Total Carats (+1 DTC)

 
 RC
 Chips 
 2007
 
 15
 
 86.8
 
 70.95 
 
 Underground 
 2006/2007 
 15
 
 2448.8 
 1601.94 
 
 Underground (drums) 
 2014/2015 
 7

 1.4
 
 1.77
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 71
 
 54.6
 
 44.65 
 
 Renard 3 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 5

 4.9
 
 6.47
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 13
 
 13.8
 
 13.66 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2004
 
 10
 
 157.0 
 185.11 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2007
 
 13
 
 59.4
 
 34.86 
 
 Underground 
 2006/2007 
 13
 
 2113.7 
 2799.85 
 
 Renard 4 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 6

 4.8
 
 2.94
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003
 
 15
 
 12.4
 
 5.32
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 36
 
 32.4
 
 13.62 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 1

 0.5
 
 0.48
 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2004
 
 17
 
 141.8 
 53.23 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2006
 
 14
 
 41.4
 
 33.21 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2004
 
 2

 1.8
 
 3.09
 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2005
 
 6

 9.8
 
 17.76 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2006/2007 
 7

 2104.2 
 2721.88 
 
 Renard 65 
 Drill Core 
 2002
 
 2

 0.8
 
 1.19
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003
 
 23
 
 19.8
 
 8.47
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 22
 
 17.9
 
 4.05
 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2004
 
 18
 
 149.6 
 32.50 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2007
 
 2

 266.0 
 51.77 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2012
 
 1

 5080.8 
 963.38 
 
 Renard 7 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 4

 4.1
 
 0.10
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 3

 2.3
 
 0.00
 
 
 Renard 8 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 4

 6.1
 
 0.47
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 2

 1.4
 
 0.03
 
 
 Renard 9 
 Drill Core 
 2004
 
 6

 6.0
 
 5.65
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005
 
 4

 6.2
 
 6.38
 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2006
 
 19
 
 70.3
 
 35.84 
 
 RC
 Chips 
 2007
 
 5

 27.3
 
 11.97 
 
 Renard 10 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 3

 1.7
 
 0.00
 
 
 Hibou 
 Surface Sample 
 2005
 
 5

 19.8
 
 4.68
 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2006
 
 2

 31.4
 
 39.53 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2008
 
 1

 543.9 
 781.41 
 
 Lynx 
 Surface Sample 
 2003
 
 3

 3.9
 
 4.46
 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2004
 
 2

 10.3
 
 14.92 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2005
 
 6

 34.7
 
 42.33 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2007
 
 3

 494.3 
 528.93 
 
 North Anomaly

 Surface Sample 
 2006/2008 
 3

 46.4
 
 44.90 
Four DMS process facilities have been used as primary
macrodiamond extraction laboratories during the Renard exploration programs to
date: two separate third party commercial facilities (a 10 tonnes per hour plant
owned by Thunder Bay Mineral Processing Laboratory and a 1.5 tonnes per hour
plant operated by Microlithics) and two facilities owned and operated by
Stornoway (a 5 tonnes per hour plant in North Vancouver, British Columbia and a
10 tonnes per hour plant at Camp Lagopède, Québec). 
Diamond bearing concentrates generated by DMS processing of
underground bulk samples, large tonnage trench samples and RC chip samples from
the Renard Diamond Mine were all subjected to final processing
at Stornoway’s North Vancouver laboratory facilities. The diamond recovery circuit includes a sizing circuit, an X-ray flow-sort machine and grease table equipment. All processing of concentrates was undertaken in secured, controlled access,
closed-circuit TV monitored areas of the North Vancouver facilities. DMS operations, post-processing treatment of DMS concentrates, observing, and post-observation handling of concentrates and diamonds, from 2004 to the present, were conducted under
approved security protocols and procedures, which include but are not limited to:
120

Chain of custody documentation;

Dual locking containers;

Uniquely numbered, single use tamper resistant seals;

Monitoring and control of sample weights;

Limited access or dual access to certain laboratory premises;

Closed-circuit TV surveillance; and

External (third party) security guards.

Comparative analysis of diamond size distribution is checked against historical and external laboratory results. Data collected from the various exploration, mini-bulk, and sampling programs were collated into a SQL Server relational database where
access is restricted to the database administrator only. The database is stored on the server in the North Vancouver office, with backups being performed every day. Processing and diamond results hard copy data are stored in fire resistant filing
cabinets in the North Vancouver office as are hard copy data of the Renard core field logging. In addition, these hardcopies have been scanned as digital PDF files which are stored on the server. 

QA/QC programs conducted by Stornoway include:

Blind spiking of samples in processing;

Blind spiking of samples in observing;

Regular testing of all machines and equipment;

Calibration and verification procedures;

Routine audits of non-observable fractions and reject materials;

Use of internal standards and reference materials;

A record-keeping system of documentation, which retains in archives all original records and data, with all amendments clearly marked, initialled and dated for reference;

Corrective actions which are implemented immediately when any aspect of laboratory analysis, or chain of custody documentation does not conform to procedural standards;

The investigation and verification of any result which appears to be a potential statistical anomaly, to ensure laboratory results fit within the geological context; and

Use of external laboratories for check samples including QP visits.

As part of the independent expert review, the following verification checks were conducted on the Foxtrot Property:

Site visits from March 5 to March 8, 2009; August 21, 2012; July 29 to July 31, 2014; and April 20 to April 22, 2015

Review of the surface and underground geological and mineralization interpretations;

Review of the historic and current exploration programs;

Review of deposit model;

Review of data that are supporting Mineral Resource models. The review covered drill core inspection, review of core logging, sampling and assay protocols and methods, and review of sample security measures and sample storage;

Review of QA/QC data protocols and methods, data integrity and validation of RC, drill core and underground data, and

Review of diamond valuation methodologies.

121

Independent samples were not collected and treated since this is not practical for diamond sampling. Stornoway’s published and practiced procedures for collection of data in the field and transposition of these data into data
‘products’ to support resource evaluation work and initial costing exercises meet industry best practice guidelines. 

These data have been collected, compiled and analyzed by a combination of methodologies in order to cater to the spatial distribution of sampling and the amount of information available for each kimberlite domain in each body. 

Unlike commodities such as gold or base metals, diamonds do not have a standard value per unit weight that can be used to calculate value of a deposit. A one carat diamond can be worth from less than one dollar to tens of thousands of dollars,
depending on the shape, colour and quality. A parcel of diamonds must be individually examined to establish an average value. Multiple valuations from different professional diamond valuers, or diamantaires, are necessary, and are usually averaged
to give an estimate of the probable true price of the goods in question. Diamond price estimates can differ between valuers by as much as ± 20%. This is especially so on smaller parcels of diamonds. These differences are simply due to the
fact that different diamantaires will perceive the value of a stone or parcel of stones differently. Their price guidelines will differ somewhat as well. 

A cumulative 8,315.58 carat diamond parcel acquired by bulk sampling underground, trench sampling and RC drilling completed by Stornoway between 2003 and 2007 was used for value modelling. In a valuation exercise, it is necessary to involve a number
of diamantaires to obtain a range of valuations that can be averaged to get an accurate price estimate and to use these data to model an average price. Often, in early stage evaluations of diamond projects, diamond price modelling is undertaken. In
price modelling, the small sample size is compensated for by estimation of what the diamond population in a larger sample would be. By doing this, the valuer attempts to predict the likelihood of finding larger stones and what their effect on the
overall value of the parcel would be and, as such, estimate more closely what the run-of-mine value would be. Modelling involves study of the diamond parcel on hand, including size distributions and valuations, to statistically estimate the upper
and lower limits of a production parcel at certain confidence levels based upon the small parcel on hand. To accomplish this, Stornoway contracted WWW to obtain valuations and perform price modelling. WWW are recognized international leaders in this
field. 

Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves

2015 Mineral Resource Estimate

Following a 2014 deep directional drill program at the Renard 2 kimberlite, and extensive related sampling activities both at Renard 2 and other project kimberlites, an updated Mineral Resource estimate was completed in accordance with the CIM
Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve definitions referred to in NI 43-101 and reported on September 24, 2015, for Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4. That work, as well as a target for further exploration for the Renard 1, Renard 7 and Renard 10
kimberlite pipes and the Hibou kimberlite dyke system, was more fully documented in an NI 43-101 technical report entitled “2015 Mineral Resource Update for the Renard Diamond Project, Québec, Canada” with an effective date
of September 24, 2015 (the “Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate”). 

The Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate comprises the integration of kimberlite volumes, density, petrology and diamond content data derived from 101,078 m of diamond drilling (497 holes), 6,151 m of large diameter reverse circulation (RC)
drilling (36 holes), 23.7 tonnes of samples submitted for microdiamond analysis, 196 carats (cts) of diamonds (3,107 stones) recovered from drill core, 605 cts of diamonds (7,181 stones) recovered from RC drilling, 4,404 cts of diamonds (40,521
stones) recovered from underground bulk sampling and 5,219 cts of diamonds (52,474 stones) recovered from surface and trench sampling. The estimate also incorporates information derived from approximately 150 drill holes, 37 surface test pits and 12
trenches undertaken for geotechnical and hydrogeological purposes. Results are tabulated in Table 3 and Table 4. The Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate is based on the continuity of geology between kimberlite at depth and kimberlite nearer
surface, and the generally low variation in sample results for the different kimberlite phases with depth. 

122

Table 3: September 2015 Indicated Mineral Resources of the
Renard Diamond Mine

 
 Deposit 
 Total Tonnes4
 
 Total Carats4
 
 Average cpht5
 
 Average Dilution % 
 
 Renard 2 Total 
 25,696,000 
 21,578,000 
 84.0 
 54.7 
 
 Renard 2 w/o CRB6
 
 21,417,000 
 20,680,000 
 96.6 
 46.4 
 
 Renard 2 CRB 
 4,279,000 
 899,000 
 21.0 
 96.0 
 
 Renard 3 
 1,820,000 
 1,859,000 
 102.2 
 33.5
 
 
 Renard 4 
 7,246,000 
 4,437,000 
 61.2 
 48.9
 
 
 Renard 65

 7,865,000 
 2,300,000 
 29.2 
 42.8
 
 
 Renard 9 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 n/a
 
 
 Lynx 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 n/a
 
 
 Hibou 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 n/a
 
 
 Total 
 42,627,000 
 30,175,000 
 70.8 
 50.6
 

 
 Notes: 
 
 1 
 
 Effective Date is September 24, 2015.
 
 2 
 
 Classified according to CIM Definition
 Standards.
 
 3 
 
 Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not
 have demonstrated economic viability.
 
 4 
 
 Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 5 
 
 Carats per hundred tonnes. Estimated at a +1 DTC sieve
 size cut-off.
 
 6 
 
 Excludes discrete more dilute kimberlite facies not
 previously incorporated into July 2013 Resource. Provided to facilitate
 more direct comparison with 2013 Mineral Resource
 estimate.
Table 4: September 2015 Inferred Mineral Resources of the
Renard Diamond Mine

 
 Deposit 
 Total
 Tonnes4 
 Total
 Carats4 
 Average cpht
 5 
 Average Dilution % 
 
 Renard 2 Total 
 6,589,000 
 3,883,000 
 58.9 
 72.8 
 
 Renard 2 w/o CRB6 
 4,080,000 
 3,356,000 
 82.3 
 58.5 
 
 
 Renard 2 CRB 
 2,510,000 
 527,000 
 21.0 
 96.0 
 
 Renard 3 
 542,000 
 609,000 
 112.3 
 39.4
 
 
 Renard 4 
 4,750,000 
 2,455,000 
 51.7
 
 56.3
 
 
 Renard 65 
 4,928,000 
 1,181,000 
 24.0
 
 56.5
 
 
 Renard 9 
 5,704,000 
 3,040,000 
 53.3
 
 63.6
 
 
 Lynx 
 1,798,000 
 1,924,000 
 107
 
 n/a
 
 
 Hibou 
 178,000 
 256,000 
 144
 
 n/a
 
 
 Total 
 24,490,000 
 13,348,000 
 54.5
 
 n/a
 

 
 Notes:
 
 1 
 
 Effective Date is September 24, 2015.
 
 2 
 
 Classified according to CIM Definition
 Standards.
 
 3 
 
 Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not
 have demonstrated economic viability.
 
 4 
 
 Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 5 
 
 Carats per hundred tonnes. Estimated at a +1 DTC sieve
 size cut-off.
 
 6 
 
 Excludes discrete more dilute kimberlite facies not
 previously incorporated into July 2013 Indicated Resource. Provided to
 facilitate more direct comparison with 2013 Mineral Resource
 estimate.
There is additional potential for the project, as the
geological models for Renard 2, Renard 3, Renard 4, Renard 65, and Renard 9 are
based on conservative geometries for the kimberlites at depth, and the models do
not incorporate areas of limited drilling at depth. New work was also undertaken
during 2013, 2014 and 2015 on the Renard 1, Renard 7, Renard 8 and Renard 10
kimberlite pipes, and various kimberlite dyke systems on the property. The
target for further exploration (TFFE) - previously known as PMD before the June
30, 2011 revisions to NI 43-101 - are detailed in Table 5. Total TFFE was
identified as representing between 76 and 113 Mt, containing between 33 and 71
million carats of diamonds, at an average grade of 43 to 63 cpht. The potential
quantity and grade of any TFFE is conceptual in nature, there is insufficient
exploration to define a Mineral Resource and it is uncertain if further
exploration will result in the target being delineated as a Mineral Resource.

Table 5: September 2015 Target For Further Exploration of
the Renard Diamond Mine 

 
 Low Range 
 High Range 
 
 
 Deposit 
 Total Tonnes

 Total Carats

 Average cpht

 Total Tonnes

 Total Carats

 Average cpht
 
 
 Renard 2 
 6,138,000 
 3,683,000 
 60 
 15,472,000 
 15,472,000 
 100 
 
 Renard 3 
 3,352,000 
 3,520,000 
 105 
 3,773,000 
 6,338,000 
 168 
 
 Renard 4 
 11,120,000 
 5,560,000 
 50 
 15,358,000 
 11,826,000 
 77 
 
 Renard 65 
 29,026,000 
 7,257,000 
 25 
 40,926,000 
 13,506,000 
 33 
 
 Renard 9 
 3,858,000 
 2,006,000 
 52 
 6,327,000 
 4,302,000 
 68 
 
 Lynx 
 3,089,000 
 2,966,000 
 96 
 3,199,000 
 3,839,000 
 120 
 
 Hibou 
 3,469,000 
 3,608,000 
 104 
 4,028,000 
 6,082,000 
 151 
 
 Renard 1 
 8,620,000 
 1,724,000 
 20 
 12,983,000 
 3,895,000 
 30 
 
 Renard 7 
 6,342,000 
 1,902,000 
 30 
 9,431,000 
 3,772,000 
 40 

123 

 
 Low Range 
 High Range 
 
 
 Deposit 
 TotalTonnes
 TotalCarats
 Averagecpht
 TotalTonnes
 TotalCarats
 Averagecpht 
 
 Renard 10 
 1,217,000 
 
 730,000 
 
 60 
 1,730,000 
 2,076,000 
 
 120 
 
 Total2 
 76,232,000 
 32,956,000 
 
 43 
 113,227,000 
 71,108,000 
 
 63 

Notes: 1 Previously known as Potential Mineral
Deposit prior to June 30, 2011 changes to NI 43-101.2 Totals may not equal
the sum of the individuals due to rounding.
For the purposes of the Renard 2016 Technical Report, only the
Indicated Mineral Resources were considered. 
Mineral Reserves 
A detailed mine plan was developed to extract the Indicated
Mineral Resources of the Renard Diamond Mine. Dilution and recovery assumptions
were applied, and cut-off grades were calculated using preliminary costs and
diamond valuations. Open pit and underground Probable Mineral Reserves were
estimated independently based on criteria specific to each method. A
reconciliation of the Indicated Mineral Resources included in the open pit and
underground mine plans was completed, confirming that all available resources
were included.
The Renard 2 and Renard 3 kimberlite pipes will be mined
through a combination of open pit and underground mining methods, while the
Renard 65 pipe will be mined by open pit method only and Renard 4 pipe will be
mined by underground methods only.
Open Pit: Reserves for the surface mine design are
reported according to CIM standards. According to these standards, resource
model blocks classified as Measured and Indicated are reported as Proven and
Probable mineral reserves respectively. Owing to those reporting standards, the
Inferred Resources cannot be included as reserves and so have not been included
in the life of mine schedule. No resource blocks are classified as Measured and
therefore no part of the Mineral Reserve classifies as Proven. The total
Probable Mineral Reserve includes an ore dilution factor and an ore recovery
factor to estimate a recoverable mining reserve. 
The ore outline mining shapes consisted of expanding the
modelled kimberlite solids to incorporate a 1 m dilution envelope. Specific
dilution factors were estimated for each kimberlite orebody through compilations
performed on a bench by bench basis. The dilution envelope is assumed not to
contain diamonds and is therefore considered to be of zero grade. The dilution
factors by bench per kimberlite pipe are shown in Tables 6 and 7. For Mineral
Reserve estimation, a 98% mine recovery factor was then applied to account for
ore unrecovered at the edge of the orebody. The cut-off grades used for the
mineral reserve estimation are shown in Table 8. 
Table 6: R2, R3 & R65 Dilution by Bench 

 
 Bench 
 
 Bench Dilution (%) 
 
 
 R2 
 R3 
 CRB 
 CRB2a 
 R65 
 
 500 
 - 
 10.1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 490 
 4.4 
 10.5 
 4.4 
 3.4 
 - 
 
 480 
 1.6 
 12.9 
 3.3 
 2.5 
 4.2 
 
 470 
 0.8 
 13.6 
 3.4 
 2.3 
 3.8 
 
 460 
 0.9 
 16.6 
 3.5 
 2.1 
 3.6 
 
 450 
 1.5 
 12.6 
 3.3 
 1.9 
 3.7 

124 

 
 Bench 
 Bench Dilution (%) 
 
 
 R2 
 R3 
 CRB 
 CRB2a 
 R65 
 
 440 
 1.7 
 10.8 
 4.6 
 2.0 
 3.6 
 
 430 
 2.0 
 9.8 
 5.3 
 1.7 
 4.1 
 
 420 
 2.6 
 9.1 
 5.3 
 1.3 
 3.6 
 
 410 
 2.4 
 9.3 
 6.7 
 1.1 
 3.8 
 
 400 
 1.3 
 5.5 
 6.2 
 0.6 
 3.6 
 
 390 
 0.5 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.6 
 
 380 
 0.2 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.5 
 
 370 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.5 
 
 360 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.6 
 
 350 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.1 
 
 Average 
 1.72 
 11.44 
 4.32 
 1.75 
 3.51 

Table 7: Average Dilution Factors 

 
 Dilution 
 R2 (Kimb2a; Kimb2b; CRB2a;
 CRB) 
 R3 
 R65 
 
 Diluted Ore Tonnage 
 4,333,020 
 793,719 
 4,578,679 
 
 Dilution Factor 
 2.73% 
 11.44% 
 3.51% 
Table 8: Open Pit Cut-off grade (cpht) 

 
 R2 (Kimb2a; Kimb2b; CRB2a; CRB) 
 R3 
 R65 
 
 16.2 
 22.1 
 17.0 
The total in-situ open pit Probable Mineral Reserve is
estimated at 8.91 Mt of ore at an average diluted grade of 44.4 cpht for 3.96
mCarats. The Renard 3 pipe has the highest average diamond grade at 92.3 cpht,
followed by Renard 2 at an average grade of 59.6 cpht (after inclusion of the
“CRB” and “CRB-2A” units). Renard 65 is a lower grade pit containing 4.58 Mt of
ore at an average grade of 30.1 cpht for 1.38 mCarats. As of December 31, 2015,
153 kt of ore have been mined and stockpiled containing an estimated 113
thousand carats.
Underground: The first step in the estimation of the
underground Probable Mineral Reserves was to create 3-D shapes for each of the
proposed stopes based on the Indicated Mineral Resource model and the planned
mining method. Practical shapes compatible with the planned development of the
drawpoint levels and drill drifts, available drill patterns, the type of
drilling equipment selected, and likely post blast outlines, were created. The
pipes outlines in some areas are irregular and in these areas practical
(smoothed) mining outlines were created, which typically encapsulated some waste
rock and occasionally excluded some kimberlite. Once all volumes were created,
the tonnage and grade of all the Indicated Mineral Resources contained within
each stope shape were queried using the resource block model, Deswik software
and excel spreadsheet for the resource to reserve conversion.
The modifying factors of mining recovery and external dilution
of BHS mining have been applied to the contained Indicated Mineral Resource and
waste in the stope shapes. The assumptions of recovery and dilution for BHS
mining used for the Renard 2016 Technical Report are listed in Table 9.
Additional simulations will be performed to optimise these factors as the mining
strategy is being refined for R2, and new simulations will be done for R3 and R4
to validate current assumptions. 
125 

Table 9: Assumptions of Recovery and Dilution of BHS Mining

 
 Modifying Factor 
 Pipe 
 
 
 
 
 R2 
 R3 
 R4 
 
 Mining Dilution 
 20% 
 14% 
 14% 
 
 Mining Recovery 
 82% 
 85% 
 78% 
Considerations for recovery and dilution estimate assumptions
for BHS mining were the following: 

 
 
 • 
 
 the first 35% of the production is swell, which is
 expected to have very low dilution. When the stope is full of blasted ore,
 the first 50% to 60% of the drawdown is also expected to have very low
 dilution and high recovery. When backfill waste starts mixing with the ore
 as it is drawn down, it is expected that dilution for each tonne drawn
 will start increasing significantly; 
 
 
 • 
 
 placement of drawpoints and drawdown planning are
 critical to achieve mass flow and minimize “rat-holing” of the blasted ore
 in the stope during drawdown; 
 
 
 • 
 
 grade of all external dilution has been assumed to be
 zero, even if it is known that the CRB units, which surround the pipes in
 many locations, contain diamonds; 
 
 
 • 
 
 for internal design dilution, a grade of 21 cpht has been
 assumed for the CRB above the 300 m elevation (Indicated Resources). The
 grade of the CRB below this elevation (Inferred Resources) was assumed at
 0 cpht, the same for all other waste rock units; 
 
 
 • 
 
 it is expected that much of the dilution will come from
 open pit waste rock, placed on top of the blasted kimberlite, which will
 contain no grade; 
 
 
 • 
 
 Material from drawcones located mostly in waste will be
 screened according to the following guidelines:

 
 
 • 
 waste/ore percentage < 75% =
 0% 
 
 
 • 
 250% > waste/ore percentage
 > 75% = 33% 
 
 
 • 
 750% > waste/ore percentage
 > 250% = 67% 
 
 
 • 
 750% < waste/ore percentage =
 100% 

 
 
 
 • 
 
 Where a significant amount of blasted waste is included
 in the stope design, it was considered that it would either be left in the
 stopes (if on top of the ore) or screened (if below the ore) following the
 assumption that 33% will be mixed with the blasted ore and recovered, and
 67% will be left in place at the end of the stope extraction. This was
 done on a stope by stope basis, making sure that it is operationally
 feasible. 
At the very bottom level (710L for Renard 2 and 270L for Renard
4), the kimberlite remaining on the underside of the drawpoint troughs will not
be recovered as part of BHS mining. At the very end of the mine life, sublevel
retreat mining will be used, to recover this ore. Up holes will be drilled from
all the drawpoints and scram drifts located below the troughs and cones, and
then the holes will be blasted and the ore mucked in a retreat fashion.
At this stage, the mine-life estimated average recovery and
dilution factors have been applied to each individual mined block (drawcone,
stopes and sills) as not enough information is available to perform this
exercise on a stope by stope basis. These factors will certainly vary for each
mined block.
The grade of all the stopes was compared to the cut-off grades
shown in Table 10, and all stopes were found to exceed this cut-off. 
Table 10: Underground Cut-off grade (cpht) 

 
 R2(Kimb2a; Kimb2b; CRB2a;
 CRB) 
 R3 
 R4 
 
 29.2 
 36.6
 
 37.1
 
126 

Of the three underground pipes in the Probable Mineral Reserve,
Renard 2 contains 81% of the tonnes and 86% of the carats, Renard 4 contains 14%
of the tonnes and 9% of the carats, and Renard 3 contains 5% of the tonnes and
carats. All open pit and underground Mineral Reserves are in the “Probable”
category. A consolidated summary of open pit and underground Probable Mineral
Reserves, by mining method and pipe, effective as of December 31, 2015, is
presented in Table 11.
Table 11: Probable Mineral Reserve Summary – Open Pit and
Underground 

 
 Mine 
 Tonnes 
 Grade 
 Carats 
 %Tonnes 
 % Carats 
 %Tonnes 
 %Carats 
 
 (k) 
 (cpht) 
 (k) 
 Total 
 Total 
 Method 
 Method 
 
 OPEN PIT 
 
 
 R2 
 1,489 
 92.7 
 1,381 
 4.5% 
 6.2% 
 16.7% 
 34.9% 
 
 CRB2A 
 475 
 31.4 
 149 
 1.4% 
 0.7% 
 5.3% 
 3.8% 
 
 CRB 
 1,575 
 20.2 
 319 
 4.7% 
 1.4% 
 17.7% 
 8.1% 
 
 R2 Subtotal 
 3,539 
 52.2 
 1,849 
 10.6% 
 8.4% 
 39.7% 
 46.7% 
 
 R3 Subtotal 
 794 
 92.3 
 733 
 2.4% 
 3.3% 
 8.9% 
 18.5% 
 
 R65 Subtotal 
 4,579 
 30.1 
 1,376 
 13.8% 
 6.2% 
 51.4% 
 34.8% 
 
 TOTAL OP 
 8,912 
 44.4 
 3,958 
 26.8% 
 17.9% 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 UNDERGROUND 
 
 
 R2-290 
 5,111 
 63.3 
 3,236 
 15.4% 
 14.6% 
 21.0% 
 17.8% 
 
 R2-470 
 4,744 
 84.7 
 4,017 
 14.3% 
 18.1% 
 19.5% 
 22.1% 
 
 R2-590 
 4,750 
 89.9 
 4,270 
 14.3% 
 19.3% 
 19.5% 
 23.5% 
 
 R2-710 
 5,073 
 81.4 
 4,132 
 15.2% 
 18.7% 
 20.8% 
 22.7% 
 
 R2 Subtotal 
 19,679 
 79.6 
 15,655 
 59.1% 
 70.7% 
 80.8% 
 86.1% 
 
 R3 Subtotal 
 1,223 
 70.2 
 858 
 3.7% 
 3.9% 
 5.0% 
 4.7% 
 
 R4 Subtotal 
 3,458 
 48.3 
 1,671 
 10.4% 
 7.5% 
 14.2% 
 9.2% 
 
 TOTAL UG 
 24,360 
 74.6 
 18,184 
 73.2% 
 82.1% 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 STOCKPILE 
 153 
 73.5 
 113 
 
 
 
 
 
 TOTAL OP, UG & Stockpile 
 33,424 
 66.5 
 22,255 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 

Notes to accompany Probable Mineral Reserves Table: 

 
 
 1) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves have an effective date of
 December 31, 2015.
 
 
 2) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves are reported on a 100%
 basis.
 
 
 3) 
 
 The reference point for the definition of Probable
 Mineral Reserves is at the point of delivery to the process
 plant.
 
 
 4) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves are reported at +1.0 mm
 (effective cut-off of 1.0 mm).
 
 
 5) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves that will be or are mined using
 open pit methods include Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 65. Probable
 Mineral Reserves are estimated using the following assumptions: Renard 2
 and Renard 3 open pit designs assuming external dilution of 4.3% and
 mining recovery of 98%; Renard 65 open pit design assuming external
 dilution of 3.5% and mining recovery of 98%.
 
 
 6) 
 
 Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 Probable Mineral Reserves
 are mined using underground mining methods. The Renard 2 Probable Mineral
 Reserve estimate assumed an external dilution of 20% and mining recovery
 of 82%. The Renard 3 Probable Mineral Reserve estimate assumed an external
 dilution of 14% and mining recovery of 85%. The Renard 4 Probable Mineral
 Reserve estimate assumed an external dilution of 14% and mining recovery
 of 78%.
 
 
 7) 
 
 Tonnes are reported as thousand metric tonnes, diamond
 grades as carats per hundred tonnes, and contained diamond carats as
 thousands of contained carats.
 
 
 8) 
 
 Tables may not sum as totals have been rounded in
 accordance with reporting guidelines.
Factors that may affect the Probable Mineral Reserve estimates
include: 

 New data from ongoing and upcoming sampling programs;
 Updates to assumptions used in estimating diamond carat content, including
 bulk density, pipe geometry and dimension, and grade interpolation method;
 
127 

 Geological interpretation of internal kimberlite units and/or domain
 boundaries;
 Changes to mine design and/or planning parameters;
 Unforeseen mine geotechnical and/or hydrological conditions;
 Depletion due to mining or sampling;
 Further improvement, or deterioration, of process plant recovery;
 External influences on operating and sustaining capital costs, including
 without being limited to, energy costs and escalation;
 Diamond price and valuation assumptions;
 Foreign exchange rates, especially Canadian versus US;
 Variations to the permitting, operating or social licence regime
 assumptions, in particular if permitting parameters are modified by regulatory
 authorities during permit renewals. 
Mining Operations 
The mining strategy for the Renard Diamond Mine is to extract
the near surface portions of the kimberlite orebodies by open pit mining methods
and to recover the extensions at depth using the underground BHS method. The
selection of this underground mining method is the result of a trade-off study
that was conducted to determine the best method for the project. The fact that
the orebody can be mined by underground mining methods affects the optimum open
pit size and is a trade-off of profit from mining by open pit versus underground
mining techniques. See “Recent Development - Mining Method” for modifications to
the underground mining method used at the Renard Diamond Mine”. 
Open Pit Design 
Open pit optimization was carried out using the Whittle
software package implementing the Lerch-Grossman algorithm. The Whittle
optimizations were performed using the Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Update. The
Renard 2016 Technical Report considers mineralization classified in the
Indicated Resource category, which limits open pit mining to the Renard 2,
Renard 3 and Renard 65 kimberlite ore bodies.
A mining dilution factor was estimated for each pipe by
including a 1 m envelope around the ore. The resulting dilution factor, which
was employed in the optimization process, was used to calculate the diluted
grade. For optimizations, an ore recovery of 96% was used for Renard 2 and
Renard 3 and 100% for R65, while for Probable Mineral Reserves estimates, a
uniform 98% was used for the open pits. Several optimization iterations and
cases were performed for the R2/R3 open pit imposing certain surface and pit
depth constraints. The selected R2/R3 pit shell is not limited by surface
constraints, but is limited to elevation 380 in the pit where the current
underground mine is designed to recover the ore body. The R65 pit is constrained
at surface due to the road and lake bounding the pit on the south side and does
not consider that the ore body will be mined by underground methods. Bench
heights of 10 m were selected to facilitate efficient drilling and blasting
activities. The loading units mine the benches in 10-m-high cuts. The pit slope
profile was determined using geotechnical recommendations. The modelled
overburden thickness varies from 5 m at the edges to > 27 m over the center
of the orebodies. The slope configuration recommendations vary based on
overburden thickness. The Renard 2 and Renard 3 open pit excavations result in a
single pit at surface with two pit bottoms centered on the respective orebodies.
The excavation is therefore treated as a single pit and is referred to as the
R2/R3 open pit. The R2/R3 open pit is too small to allow for internal pit
phases. The Renard 65 pit is centered on one main kimberlite and will be mined
in three phases to maximize value and sequence waste mining.
Underground Mine Development 
Access to the mine is provided by a ramp to exploit the
Probable Mineral Reserves that have been defined down to a depth of 710 m for
the Renard 2 pipe, 250 m for the Renard 3 pipe and 270 m for the Renard 4 pipe.
The underground mine has been planned so that a single common ramp provides
access to all three Renard pipes. The ramp has been sized to allow efficient ore
extraction with an underground mobile equipment fleet, such as 60t haul trucks
and 20t LHDs. It is driven from surface to the 710L and connects to ten drill levels and four production levels. Since
only a ramp and a supported raise with a manway have access through to surface,
all workers, equipment and materials are transported in and out of the
underground mine via the ramp facility. To facilitate smooth traffic in the ramp
during the ore haul, passing bays were incorporated into the ramp design to
allow loaded ore trucks to travel the ramp with minimal interruptions. The
Renard 3 and Renard 4 pipes will be accessed either from the main ramp or from
existing levels initially developed to access Renard 2. 
128 

During the life-of-mine, a total of 37.0 km of development will
be excavated of which 4.0 km will be in initial or pre-production capital with
the remainder in operating and sustaining capital. This development will produce
0.6 Mt of kimberlite ore and 2.0 Mt of waste. Ramp development was initiated in
December 2014 with an initial 8 m cut, and then recommenced in April 2015. As of
December 31, 2015, 887 m of development had been completed. The main ramp was
the highest priority task until it reached 290L, as it was part of the critical
path to start the underground operation. The planned rates per development team
are 5.2 m/d for the ramp; 5.5 m/d for a single face in standard size tunnels,
and 6.5 m/d if there are multiple faces available in standard size tunnels.
Except for the first 8 m, which were performed by a contractor, all lateral
development will be done by Stornoway-employed crews with newly purchased
equipment.
The main exhaust raise is a vertical and supported 6.5 -m in
diameter raise, extending from surface to 710L. It will be excavated in four
sections: surface to 290L; 290L to 470L; 470L to 590L; and 590L to 710L. The
main fresh air raise is a vertical 6.5 -m diameter supported raise, also
extending from surface to 710L. It will be excavated in five sections: surface
to 160L; 160L to 290L; 290L to 470L; 470L to 590L and 590L to 710L. The fresh
air raise also serves as the secondary egress from the mine in the event of
emergency where the primary egress through the ramp is unavailable. Mine
services such as electrical cables, fuel line, mine water, dewatering,
compressed air and communications are provided through the raise as well. 
Underground Mining 
The BHS method has been designed to progress in four stages
from the top of the pipe (bottom of the open pit) downwards. As the ore is drawn
from the stope, a large open void will be created if no backfill is used. The
mine plan is to fill this void using open pit waste as backfill placed into the
stope by dumping it from trucks on surface onto the top of the broken ore column
being drawn down in the pipe. For Renard 2 and Renard 3, waste will be dumped
over the edge of the pit, while for Renard 4, wastes will be dumped into
backfill raises leading to the top of the underground stope. This use of open
pit wastes will also enable the rehabilitation of the waste rock pile during
mine operation rather than at the end of the mine life.
See “Recent Developments - Mining Method” for a recent update
on the underground mining method used at the Renard Diamond Mine”. 
A 3D view of the planned development and stopes is shown in
Figure 12. 
129 

For production mining, the Renard 2 pipe has been divided
vertically into four production stages (zones), each located at elevations where
the ore body changes geometry and orientation, so that recovery and dilution
factors could be optimized. The resulting production levels with this design are
at level 290L, 470L, 590L and 710L (all level designations are depth below
surface in meters). Their respective heights are 165 m (up to the pit bottom),
180 m and 120 m for the last two stages. Drawpoints and cones will be located at
the base of each of the stages. A top-down mining sequence is planned for the
four mining zones in Renard 2.
The base of the Indicated Resource in the Renard 4 pipe is 235
m below surface (270 m from FAR collar) and will be mined below a 100-m-thick
crown pillar for a vertical height of 135 m. The interpretation of the shape of
the Renard 4 pipe is oblong, and very regular in its outline, so this height was
deemed to be suitable for BHS mining. One production level and two drill levels
will be used to extract all reserves from the Renard 4 orebody, which will also
be subdivided into vertical panels as Renard 2. The bottom production level for
Renard 4 pipe is at the 270L. 
The Renard 3 pipe is fairly large close to surface, but then
necks down to a fairly small pipe below the open pit and further necks down at
the base of the Indicated Mineral Resources at a depth of 250 m. Due to the very
irregular shape of the orebody, the Renard 3 pipe was divided in two stopes. The
stope on the West side of the pipe will first be mined bottom up by BHS as its
grade and size are more important. This opens the opportunity to recover most of
the carats in R3 without adding fill before the stope is depleted. Once the
first stope is filled with waste, the stope on the East side of the pipe (stope
2) will be mined using standard long hole stoping, as it is too narrow to
accommodate drawcones. The bottom of the only production level for the Renard 3
pipe is at 250L, and the mining of two stopes will extend up to the bottom of
the pit.
130 

Production Schedule
The mine production schedule was developed to initially supply
the plant at a nominal rate of 2.16 Mt per annum or 180,000 t/month. A plant
ramp up schedule began in July 2016. Commercial Production was achieved on
January 1, 2017. It is planned to increase the mill feed up to 210,000 t/month
by July 2018 to reach 2.52 Mt per annum. The open pit production rate in the
R2/R3 open pit is less than the mill capacity. An ore stockpile was accumulated
to be used to balance the open pit and plant schedule until such time as
sufficient ore produced by underground mining operations is available. The
Renard 65 pipe is of lower grade than Renard 2 and Renard 3 pipes and is mined
as supplemental feed to the underground operation once the R2/R3 open pit
is exhausted. Waste rock mined from R65 is also used as underground backfill
material and the Renard 65 pit will act as a water catchment basin to collect
surface runoff water. Mining of the R2/R3 open pit commenced in March 2015. 
Initial production blasting in the Renard 2 pipe on 290L was
scheduled to start in August 2017, at a modest production rate with the
commencement of drawcone blasting. The first production blast in the underground
mine occurred successfully on December 20, 2017. Generally, each stope will
provide between 1,000 tonnes per day and 2,000 tonnes per day in order to
maintain a good ore/backfill interaction to optimize recovery and dilution
factors. The underground production schedule has been designed to coordinate
with the open pit production schedule so that the mill feed continues at the
full rate of 6,000 tonnes per day during the transition period from the
completion of the open pit through the buildup to full production from
underground. 
Underground production will continue until early 2029 for a
total mine life of 14 years. For the Renard 2 pipe, the 290L mining area will be
completed in Q1-2021, the 470L area in Q2-2023, the 590L in 2025, and the final
710L area in 2028. The R3 pipe has been scheduled in 2026 and 2027 during the
transition of the production from the R2-710 zone towards R4. Due to its small
body shape and confined design, the highest planned rate for Renard 3 is 3,000
tonnes per day. The first production from R4 starts in 2027 and continues to the
end of the mine life in early 2029.
See also “General Development of the Business – Three Year
History” for updates on production and other related developments. 
Mineral Processing and Diamond Recovery 
The process flow sheet was developed by Stornoway based on the
following key aspects: 

 The material characteristics observed, and data obtained, from the
 treatment of underground samples from Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 in
 Stornoway’s Lagopede bulk sample plant;
 Specific unit operation test work;
 Conventional diamond processing techniques as successfully employed in the
 diamond industry;
 Liberation effectiveness with focus on diamond breakage;
 Circuit simplicity; and
 Cost effectiveness. 
To optimize footprint and capital costs, the diamond process
plant design has a single process line for comminution and ore preparation.
Capacity considerations dictate that two (2) DMS circuits for concentration and
four (4) lines for fines dewatering are required. All process equipment
including storage bins and materials handling equipment is housed within a
heated building, heated transfer towers or heated conveyor galleries. 
The process plant design capacity is 2.16 Mt per annum (dry
solids basis). The plant overall utilization was estimated to be 78%, equivalent
to an operating time of 6,833 hours per year or 315 tonnes per hour and 6,000
tonnes per day. Since January 2018, the plant has been operating at a throughput
of 7,000 tonnes per day at an overall plant utilization of 83.5%, resulting from
the optimization of plant maintenance sequences. Further optimization work is
ongoing focusing on liberation, diamond breakage and increasing the overall plant utilization. The ore
processing system liberates, concentrates and recovers diamonds from 45 mm to
1mm.
131 

Liberation design uses stage crushing where each crusher
operates with a large crushing gap to protect against potential diamond
breakage. ROM material is crushed, washed and sized at various stages to produce
-45 mm ore, before all liberated diamonds are recovered within either a DMS or
LDR concentration process. All rejected material larger than 6 mm from these
processes is re-crushed within a HPGR crusher to maximize the liberation of
trapped diamonds. The HPGR product is then returned to the scrubber circuit to
wash and de-agglomerate the HPGR product. The HPGR promotes interparticle
crushing used for tertiary crushing and is the principal diamond liberator
generating a product size of 60% smaller than 6 mm. The majority of the unwanted
fines (-1 mm) are separated from the ore in these circuits and then pumped to
the thickening circuit for dewatering. See “Recent Developments - Ore-Waste
Sorting”. 
A surge bin with a capacity of 240 tonnes decouples the DMS
from the ore preparation circuit. The process plant produces a DMS and LDR
concentrate which is treated in a secure diamond recovery facility that uses
diamond differentiation techniques based on magnetic, X-ray, laser Raman and
ultraviolet technologies with hand sorting as final de-falsing step to produce a
nominally 98% diamond product.
Final diamond recovery is achieved by hand sorting diamonds
from waste in a secure glove box, located within the sorthouse in the recovery
plant. The diamonds are chemically cleaned before preliminary valuation and
export. The diamond plant is expected to have a diamond recovery efficiency of
not less than 97% by mass and 99% by value of liberated diamonds.
Security is a key element of the process plant design given the
high value and volume of the final diamond product. A security management system
to detect, deter and reduce the possibility of diamond theft in conjunction with
an automated diamond recovery process is part of the design. 
The following facilities are included in the plant design: 

 
 • 
 Main plant office, control room and electrical
 rooms 
 • 
 Air compressor area 
 
 • 
 Recovery plant office, control room and storage
 room 
 • 
 Mid size maintenance workshop 
 
 • 
 Security offices, access control and search
 rooms 
 • 
 Diamond cleaning facility 
 
 • 
 Metallurgical laboratory 
 • 
 Diamond stock room 
 
 
 
 • 
 Diamond valuation room 
132 

Project Infrastructure 
On Site Ground Infrastructure 
The on-site ground infrastructure of the Renard Diamond Mine
include the following: 
Water distribution system: a raw water intake in Lake
Lagopede and a pumping station on the shore at hundred meters from the lake. It
is located near the accommodation camp and a few hundred metres from the main
process area. The same pumping station also supplies the potable water treatment
plant. 
Wastewater treatment plant: a wastewater treatment plant
equipped with a membrane bioreactor treatment system. 
Potable water treatment plant. The potable water
treatment plant is installed in a container located within the emergency
vehicles garage. It houses the water treatment equipment, pumps and a small
office.
Trench landfill: A trench landfill system with a volume
of 40,000 m³ is in operation for domestic solid waste management. 
Power plant: a power plan (comprised of eight natural
gas generators of 2050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of 1800 KW
each) to provide power requirements of the mine. 
Fuel and LNG storage and regasification plant: A tank
farm to store arctic grade diesel and unleaded gasoline in double-walled fuel
tanks, and an LNG storage and regasification plant. This facility consists of a
truck offloading station, six storage tanks and a regasification station with
its ancillary equipment. 
Explosive storage and handling area: the explosive
storage and handling area consists of storage containers for emulsion, one
detonator magazine, one packaged explosive magazine and a garage / wash bay
building. 
133 

Service Buildings: an accommodation complex, a camp
reception complex, dormitories, emergency vehicle garage & potable water
treatment plant, a service building, a leisure building, a heavy vehicle truck
shop, light vehicle garage, workshop and warehouse and an office building.

Telecommunication System: A single satellite dish
antenna, modems and related equipment have been installed at the mine site for
recreational use (mainly TV signal to the rooms). Voice, video conferencing and
data transmission are assured to the Renard mining site via a multi-megabit
Microwave link going through seven repeater towers. The above Microwave link
originates at the office building where MPLS connectivity to all other Stornoway
locations is provided. The airport communication systems are serviced from the
mine site by way of another multi-megabit Microwave link. This provides
surveillance of the remote airport site while it is unmanned. IP Telephone
service with QoS (Quality of Service) is installed at all site locations where
warranted for operation and/or emergency communication needs. The industrial
areas of the site (mill, power plant, garages etc.) are linked via fiber optic
cables and equipped with more robust telephone sets and cabling, where
warranted. VLANs with Firewall rules are used in order to keep recreational,
corporate, production, CCTV and other types of content isolated from each other.

On Site Underground Infrastructure
Electrical power: electrical power is provided
throughout the mine for drills, jumbos, fans, pumps, lighting and other
miscellaneous loads. The power is distributed to the mine at 4.16 kV through
three primary feeders, two located in the fresh air raise (3C 250 MCM) and the
third in the ramp. All three feeders are supplied from the power station
electrical room. A substation located on surface feeds from the power house
electrical room containing BUS A and B and having 2000 amp capacity. From there,
power is distributed to the mine surface facilities, including the main intake
fans. 
Ventilation system: the mine has one main fresh air
intake, which is a 6.5 -m diameter supported raise with services and manway
(secondary egress). Fresh air is distributed on most levels directly from the
fresh air raise. Drill levels which are not connected to the fresh air raise are
supplied via smaller vent raises connected to other levels with fresh air. Air
distribution within the mine is controlled by a combination of ventilation doors
(SAS), regulators, plastic flaps and secondary fans installed in walls. This
allows large flow coverage of the levels with the use of auxiliary fans only
locally (e.g., drill drifts). As the ramp is the primary egress, the secondary
egress from the mine is provided via a ladderway installed in the fresh air
raise. The mine fresh air intake is downcast so in the case of a fire, it is
always in fresh air and provides a safe escape route. In the rare case of a fire
in or near the raise, personnel will report to the nearest refuge station. 
Water pipelines: process water is required underground
for drilling, dust suppression, and wash-down of equipment and rock faces for
geology and mining. Process water is supplied from the mine process water
distribution system on surface, and is fed underground through 151 mm (6”)
pipelines in the fresh air raise and 102 mm (4”) in the ramp. Provisions are
made for water recirculation to reduce water consumption and water treatment.
Potable water for underground use is provided using a 51 mm (2”) line in the
fresh air raise.
Dewatering system: a four-stage dewatering system is
used for the underground mine. Main sumps and pumping stations are located on
290L, 470L, 590L and 710L, with water pumped from the lower pump station being
rehandled at the upper station. It is anticipated that approximately 30% of the
mine water inflows will be intercepted and contained at 290L, 470L and 590L as
mining progresses deeper. Consequently, the 710L lower pumping station has been
designed for 1960 m3/day (360 USgpm) while the 290L, 470L and 590L
upper stations will be capable of pumping the full predicted flow of 2,725
m3/day (500 USgpm). All pump stations have two pump arrangements
installed, one operational and the second on standby for maintenance. A gravity
drainage system was established whereby drainage holes were drilled to connect
the levels and channel mine water down to the sump on the nearest level. 
Communication system: the communication system for the
underground operation was installed in most tunnels and uses coaxial cable with
modems, antennas and amplifiers. The system is capable of transmitting data and
voice, as well as high speed internet, telephone and equipment/personnel
tracking. 
134 

In addition, conventional telephone service is provided to the
refuge stations, maintenance facilities and fueling stations. 
Explosive storage area: explosive storage areas include
three excavations: the explosive truck parking, the explosive magazine and the
detonator magazine. Three explosive storage areas were planned to provide
explosives underground, all located near the Renard 2 production horizons. The
main magazine is located off the ramp close to surface, the second set at the
entrance of the 390 drill level, and the third one at the same location on the
620 drill level. The explosive magazines have been designed to store 40
containers for a total capacity of 60,000 kg of emulsion and some packaged
explosives.
Underground fuel bays: in addition to a surface fueling
facility, a fueling system to deliver fuel underground through a pipeline has
been installed. Underground fuel bays were constructed on all main production
levels: 290L, 470L, 590L and 710L. Each fuel bay is equipped with a 20,000-litre
receiving tank and dispensing equipment. The transfer of fuel underground is
done through a 25-mm diameter piping system on a batch basis, and will be fully
instrumented to ensure safe operation.
Refuge Stations: a total of 14 refuge stations are
located at various strategic locations throughout the mine according to Quebec’s
regulations (15 min walk or 1000 m).
Offsite Infrastructure 
Renard Airport: The airstrip for the Renard Diamond Mine
is owned and operated by Stornoway with chartered aircrafts for its exclusive
needs. The reference aircraft for the design of the runway is the DASH 8, Series
300 with a capacity of 50 passengers. The airport terminal is a two-storey
building, erected on site from an engineered wood structure. It includes an
office for the airport operator, toilets and a general waiting area. A service
shed, also built from an engineered wood structure, houses the generators and
de-icing equipment. Jet fuel and diesel are stored in double-walled tanks. 
Road Access: land access to the Renard Diamond Mine is
provided by the extension of provincial highway Route 167 (built by the
Ministère des Transport du Québec) and the Renard mining road (built by
Stornoway). This road infrastructure affords year-round access linking the
project to the municipalities of Mistissini and Chibougamau. The Route 167
Extension was constructed to MTQ standards and is a two-lane gravel-topped road
with two-lane bridges and a design speed limit of 70 km/h, while the mining road
is a two-lane gravel topped Class III road with one-lane bridges and a design
speed limit of 50 km/h. 
Processed Kimberlite Containment Facility 
The PKC facility is the long-term storage facility for the PK
generated during operations. The facility has a total footprint area of about 72
hectares (ha) and is planned to store 44.8 megatonnes (Mt) of PK (23 Mm3 of PK)
representing the total Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources of the Renard
Diamond Mine for a long-term life of mine that could reach 19 years.
The site, located in the Canadian subarctic, is permafrost-free
and of low seismicity. The PKC facility is located on top of a watershed, which
generally drains towards the processing plant located to the southwest, thus
facilitating water management. Geotechnical testing carried out to date
classifies the PK as well-graded sand with some gravel to gravelly sand with
some low plastic or non-plastic fines. Of concern is the potential plasticity of
the PK; therefore, the PKC facility was designed based on the potential
undrained behaviour of the PK. Geochemical testing carried out to date showed
that the PK and waste rock release low concentration of dissolved constituents;
therefore, the PK and mine waste rock are classified as low risk materials.
Furthermore, the waste rock is considered to be Category I and is suitable for
use as a construction material without restriction. Geotechnical and geochemical
testing of the PK will be performed throughout the development of the PKC
facility.
The design objective of the PKC facility is that it receives
all materials generated by the processing plant at all times such that neither
mining nor processing operations are adversely affected. The design, including
development and operating plans, have been developed in consideration of the
expected variability of the PK and in consideration of the facility
having a high consequence of failure as per the 2013 Dam Safety Guidelines
published by the Canadian Dam Safety Guidelines. The PK is dewatered at the
processing plant and trucked to the PKC facility. The facility will be developed
throughout operations as a stacked facility with an external slope configuration
of 3H: 1V. Placement of the erosion protection layer on the exterior of the PKC
facility will occur during operations, thereby progressively closing the
facility during its development. No water will be allowed to pond within the PKC
facility. See also “Recent Developments - Processed Kimberlite Containment
Facility”. 
135 

The PKC facility includes material placement zones (nominally
compacted zone, engineered filled zone, and PK waste zone), a starter berm, a
containment berm, an access ramp to allow haulage of PK, as well as a water
management system, including internal drainage elements (rockfill blanket and
foundation rock drains), a slope drainage channel for the access ramp, and a
series of ditches and sumps around the perimeter of the facility. The engineered
fill zone corresponds to the outer shell of the PKC facility and provides
sufficient material strength to ensure stability of the facility. This zone is
constructed on a prepared foundation and placed as an engineered fill. The
nominally compacted fill zone corresponds to the internal portion of the PKC
facility. This zone is built with PK material and provides PK storage capacity
into which the material will be deposited with nominal compaction control
measures. During processing plant commissioning and early operations, the PK is
expected to have higher water content than for the duration of operations. The
PK waste zone contains PK with excessively high water contents requiring the
construction of the containment berm to separate the PK waste from both the
engineered and nominally compacted fill zones. A rockfill embankment, namely the
starter berm, was constructed prior to the deposition of PK to allow for the
deposition of PK with high water content. The starter berm was placed on the
interior limit of the engineered fill zone. See also “Recent Developments -
Processed Kimberlite Containment Facility”. 
The PK is expected to be variable over the life of mine; this
will affect its geotechnical behaviour. The key parameter for the development of
the PKC facility is the water content of the PK. The PK hauled and placed in the
PKC facility is expected to be several percents above the geotechnical optimum
water content. Mechanical reworking of the PK to dry it to enable the required
compaction within the engineered fill zone is expected to be required. The
facility development and PK management plans are developed with this in
mind.
PK is an erodible material. Therefore, the crest of the
facility will be sloped and crowned to promote drainage of surface water and
precipitation towards water collection systems. The placement of the erosion
protection layer on the external slopes will be concurrent with PKC facility
development. This is consistent with the progressive closure concept aimed to
provide environmental, financial and operational benefits for the mine. For
facility closure, the PKC facility pile will be contoured and surfaced to mimic
the surrounding landforms.
The conditions in the foundation and deposited PK will be
monitored during the development of the PKC facility and into the closure
period. The geotechnical instrumentation program includes the installation and
the monitoring of piezometers (measurement of phreatic surface and porewater
pressures within the PK), thermistors (temperature measurement within the PK),
and survey monuments (displacement measurement of the PK). See also “Recent
Developments - Processed Kimberlite Containment Facility”. 
Diamond Market Fundamentals and Diamond Price Estimates

Rough diamonds are a mined product characterised by a high
degree of non-homogeneity in terms of size, colour, quality and shape. Rough
diamonds are not exchange traded and have no terminal market. Rather, they are
sold directly by mine producers to a wide range of clients within an industry
pipeline that funnels their transformation into polished diamond jewellery
through cutting and polishing, polished diamond wholesaling, diamond jewellery
manufacturing, and end-product distribution to the retail markets of the world.

Most mine producers will undertake the sorting of their rough
diamond production into parcels of like characteristics so as to maximise their
attractiveness and value prior to sale. Sales mechanisms include contracted sales with a regular list of qualified rough market
buyers, tenders and auctions, offtakes with retail end-users, and downstream
beneficiation partnerships designed to capture value-add. Sales are typically
transacted on a cash basis in US dollars. 
136 

Diamond pricing is set by a mine producer based on a regularly
adjusted price book, or set on the basis of an achieved price achieved in a
tender or auction sale. No benchmark price list for rough prices exist, although
several rough market agencies, such as RoughPrices.com, publish a rough price
index based on proprietary transactional data and public data compiled from the
international Kimberley Process and producer country customs agencies. 
Stornoway intends to sell the diamond production from the
Renard Diamond Mine in 10 tender sales per year in Antwerp, Belgium. To this
end, Stornoway’s wholly owned subsidiary FCDC Sales and Marketing Inc. has
entered into a sales and marketing agreement with the diamond industry broker
and rough distributor Bonas-Couzyn, which acts as sales commissionaire and
tender agent for arm's length market sales. Sales of diamonds are undertaken by
Bonas-Couzyn, on an undivided basis, on behalf of FCDC and the Renard Streamers.
Stornoway’s clients are typically large Indian-based manufacturers and rough
traders. 
In most diamond supply and demand forecasts, future rough
diamond supply is assessed on the basis of current and future production plans
at the major producing mines. These supply projections are generally robust, as
most of the world’s major diamond mines are operating on a steady-state basis or
transitioning to lower production rates as they age, and it typically takes
between 8 and 12 years to find and develop a new diamond mine. 
Bain and Company forecast a potential maximum of 20 million
carats of new diamond production between 2013 and 2019 on the basis that all
currently known sources of rough supply are brought to the market. This yields a
forecast Compound Annual Growth Rate of 4.5% to 5.5% in carat terms (Bain &
Company, 2015).
Diamond demand forecasting (expressed as either demand for
rough diamonds in the cutting centres or demand for polished diamonds for
diamond jewelry manufacture) is a more complex calculation based on, amongst
other things: 
• long-term GDP
growth forecasts in the main consumer markets; 
• diamond jewelry
consumer growth trends in developing markets; and 
• short-term
inventory draw-down or re-stocking trends within the diamond pipeline, often
linked to levels of bank debt. 
• The impact of
diamond recycling or synthetic diamond substitution on polished diamond demand.

The principal difference between published diamond demand
forecasts is whether they are based solely on the first of these elements and
assume steady state diamond demand linked to GDP growth or whether they also
take into account the second and third of these elements, and allow for market
changes outside of GDP growth and short- term inventory factors. 
2015 was a year of volatility in the world diamond markets
which saw price declines for both rough and polished diamonds in the face of
moderate sales growth for diamond jewellery in the US market, flat or negative
growth in China, and low profitability for those in the transformative, middle
part of the diamond pipeline (Bain & Company, 2015). High stocking levels of
polished diamonds along with high debt levels in the cutting centers created the
impression of a short-term over-supply of rough diamonds and low sell-through of
polished diamond jewellery. 
On a longer-term basis, Bain & Company forecast a global
compound annual growth rate in rough diamond demand of 3% to 4% to 2030, with a
period of supply balance between 2015 and 2019 as the new projects come into production. The differential between a
long-term positive demand outlook and negative supply outlook prompts the common
adoption in the diamond mining industry of a real terms price escalation factor
on rough diamond prices for the forward planning and valuation purposes, with
real terms escalators of between 1% and 4% common. Stornoway has typically
chosen to represent forward diamond prices based on a combination of “spot”
diamond market pricing and a forward escalation factor of 2.5% compound annual
growth rate in the base case, applied for a period of 10 years, with
sensitivities of 0% and 5%. 
137 

Between May 9, 2011 and May 13, 2011, parcels of diamonds
recovered during the 2007 bulk sampling program from the Renard 2, 3 and 4
kimberlite pipes were valued in Antwerp, Belgium under the supervision of WWW
International Diamond Consultants Ltd. WWW also valued diamond parcels from the
Lynx and Hibou kimberlite dykes. WWW is an internationally recognized
independent diamond valuation and advisory service to diamond mining and
exploration companies. In Canada WWW, through Diamonds International Canada
(DICAN) Ltd., serves as the valuator for the Government of the Northwest
Territories and the Government of Ontario.
In addition to performing its own valuation, WWW showed the
Renard 2, 3 and 4 diamond samples to four other experienced rough diamond
companies in order to obtain additional market-based valuations (an “open
market” valuation). In each case WWW’s own valuation was higher than the average
of the five independent valuations and the average was used by WWW to construct
a diamond price model, with “High” and “Minimum” sensitivities based on
alternate interpretations of diamond quality and potential value. Diamond price
models represent the true diamond price that might reasonably be expected for a
kimberlite ore body based on standard commercial-scale recoveries of all diamond
size classes. They differ from the achieved diamond valuation price principally
through a correction which is applied for the absence of large diamonds which
are typically under-represented in exploration scale samples. The choice of
“Minimum” and “High” to describe the sensitivity limits is deliberate: in WWW’s
view it is highly unlikely that an actual diamond price achieved for each
kimberlite ore body upon production would fall below the “Minimum” sensitivity,
but it is possible that the actual diamond price achieved may be higher than the
“High” sensitivity, which is not a maximum price. 
At the time of the May 2011 open market valuation, WWW
recommended the adoption of a single diamond price model for the Renard 2 and
Renard 3 valuation samples given the similarity of the diamonds in terms of
diamond qualities and size distribution.
A separate diamond price model was adopted for the Renard 4
valuation sample given its apparently finer distribution of diamond sizes and
marginally different diamond quality characteristics. However, independent
studies on diamond breakage and plant performance during the processing of the
Renard bulk samples have indicated that the size distribution of the Renard 4
sample had most likely been modified during its recovery. For this reason, an
alternate diamond price model for the Renard 4 sample has been adopted for
planning purposes since the May 2011 valuation exercise which assumes a diamond
size distribution equal to the average Renard 2-Renard 3 size distribution. 
The collection of a bulk sample of diamonds from the Renard 65
kimberlite in 2013 revealed a diamond population with a markedly different
assortment of diamond qualities compared to any of the other kimberlite pipes.
Accordingly, individual price models have been adopted for each kimberlite pipe
at the Renard Diamond Mine since this time on the basis that the small
differences in diamond quality and size distribution that can be observed
between the pipes should be treated as real. Updated diamond valuation exercises
were conducted on this basis by WWW in March 2013 and March 2014. For the Renard
2, 3 and 4 valuation samples, the result of each WWW re-valuation was used to
adjust the average valuations obtained in the May 2011 exercise from the five
independent valuators, and a revised diamond price model with High and Minimum
sensitivities generated. The Lynx and Hibou samples were not re-valued in 2013
and 2014 and the proposed mine plan for Renard presently does not include these
kimberlite bodies. At the time of the most recent WWW re-valuation in March
2014, base case diamond price models of US$197/carat were calculated for Renard
2, US$157/carat for Renard 3, US$155/carat for Renard 4 and US$187/carat for
Renard 65. 
138 

A tracking of world average rough diamond prices by
RoughPrices.com, based on a market assortment maintained by WWW, indicates a
-19% drop in average diamond pricing between March 2014 and March 2016.
Stornoway has applied this market adjustment to the March 2014 WWW diamond price
models to arrive at an estimate of “Spot” diamond pricing for each Renard
kimberlite pipe for use in the Renard Diamond Mine’s economic analysis and the
declaration of the project’s Mineral Reserves of the Renard 2016 Technical
Report. 
Table 14: Estimated Diamond Price Adjustments, March 2014 to
March 2016 

 
 Body 
 March 2014 Diamond Price
 Model 1
(US$/carat) 
 Estimated Market Price
 Adjustment March 2014to March 2016 
 Adjusted Price Estimates
 March 2016: “Spot” PriceModels
 1
(US$/carat) 
 
 
 Renard 2 
 $197 (High $222,
 Min $178) 
 -19% 
 $160 (High $181,
 Min $145) 
 
 Renard 3 
 $157 (High $192,
 Min $146) 
 -19% 
 $128 (High $156,
 Min $119) 
 
 Renard 4 
 $106
 ($155)2 (High $174, Min
 $100) 
 -19% 
 $86
 ($126)2 (High $141, Min
 $81) 
 
 Renard 65 
 $187 (High $190,
 Min $160) 
 -19% 
 $152 (High $155,
 Min $130) 
Notes: 

 
 1 
 
 As determined by WWW International Diamond Consultants
 Ltd. at a +1 DTC sieve size cut off.
 
 2 
 
 As determined by applying the world average rough price
 index of roughrices.com to the March 2014 price models, at a +1 DTC sieve
 size cut-off.
 
 3 
 
 Should the Renard 4 diamond population prove to have a
 size distribution equal to the average of Renard 2 and 3, WWW have
 estimated that a base case diamond price model of US$155 per carat would
 apply based on March 2014 pricing, equivalent to US$126 per carat on a
 market price adjusted basis to March 2016.
See “Recent Developments - Diamond Marketing and Sales” for
recent developments on diamond price estimates. 
Conclusions and Recommendations 
All elements of the project development plan, including the
remaining required infrastructure, mine design, process plant design, waste
disposal infrastructure and cost estimation, represent the 2016 estimate for
life of mine operations. The resulting information therefore met all of the
applicable requirements for conversion of Indicated Mineral Resources to a
Probable Mineral Reserve estimate. The Probable Mineral Reserve estimate was
determined in accordance with CIM Definition Standards classification.
Considering the risks inherent in all kimberlite deposits, such as sampling for
geological continuity, diamond grade and diamond revenue determination, the
Indicated portion of the Mineral Resources is considered suitable for the
estimate of Probable Reserve. The authors of the report recommend to perform
additional work in order to reduce the uncertainties in the geomechanical and
design analysis and to continually review these analysis to ensure they remain
valid over time. They also recommend to test processed kimberlite material post
production to confirm geochemical classification in support of the processed
kimberlite facility design. There is no certainty that the results described in
the Renard 2016 Technical Report will be realized. 
Recent Developments 
Diamond Marketing and Sales 
The prices of rough diamonds have fluctuated in recent years
and are affected by numerous factors beyond Stornoway’s control. 
139 

The following chart provides a diamond price reconciliation
between management estimates of mixed Renard 2-Renard 3 pricing as of the Renard
2016 Technical Report, and sales results on production sold in 2018. 

(1) Based on mixed Renard 2-Renard 3 production, US$/ct.
Mining Method 
At the outset of the mine design a trade-off study was
conducted to select the preferred underground mining method or methods to be
used to extract the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 pipes and based on this
study, the BHS mining method was selected to mine the underground portions of
the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 kimberlite pipes. In 2018, after beginning
underground mining using the BHS method, it was determined that the Block Caving
(BC) mining method would in fact better suit the rockmass behaviour of the
Renard Diamond Mine and the underground mining method was modified from BHS to
BC. 
The BC method is a mass mining method in which the full plan
area of the orebody is undercut. Following the drawing of the broken ore, the
cave progress upwards until it daylight into the open pit. The ore is drawn from
various drawpoints located on each extraction level. The drawing of the broken
ore is sequenced such a way that the ore-waste interface is lowered
sub-horizontally. Some production drilling and blasting is required to assist
the cave and to improve fragmentation. However, the quantity of production
drilling and blasting is significantly less than BHS and it does not require
backfilling. 
The BC method allows to achieve the expected underground
production rate of 6,000 tonnes per day and no modification to the equipment
fleet of the Renard Diamond Mine was required in order to transition from a BHS
to a BC mining method. 
For production mining, the Renard 2 pipe has been divided
vertically into three production stages (mining horizons), each located at
elevations where the ore body changes geometry and orientation, so that recovery
and dilution factors could be optimized. The resulting extraction levels with
this design are at level 290L, 470L and 710L (all level designations are depth
below surface in meters). Their respective heights are 165 m (up to the pit
bottom), 180 m and 240 m. Drawpoints will be located at the base of each
extraction point. 
140 

The base of the Indicated Resource in the Renard 4 pipe is 235
m below surface (270 m from FAR collar) and will be mined below a 100-m-thick
crown pillar for a vertical height of 135 m. The interpretation of the shape of
the Renard 4 pipe is oblong, and very regular in its outline, so this height was
deemed to be suitable for block caving mining. One production level and two
drill levels will be used to extract all reserves from the Renard 4 orebody. The
bottom production level for Renard 4 pipe is at the 270L. 
The Renard 3 pipe is fairly large close to surface, but then
necks down to a fairly small pipe below the open pit and further necks down at
the base of the Indicated Mineral Resources at a depth of 290 m. The Renard 3
pipe will be mined using a conventional long hole mining method. Production
drilling drifts will be developed on two levels, 220L and 160L. Production
drilling will be performed downward and upwards. Drawpoints will be developed on
the extraction level 290L. Blasted ore will be drawn from the drawpoints. Mining
will extend up to the bottom of the pit.
Mineral Reserves Update 
On March 28, 2019 Stornoway announced that Mineral Reserves as
of December 31, 2018 had been updated based on mining depletion and on an
updated open pit design in R65. The Renard reserves total 18.2 million carats
(25.6 million tonnes at 71cpht).
Exclusive of the Mineral Reserves, the Renard Diamond Mine
includes additional Indicated Mineral Resources of 3.7 million carats (8.7
million tonnes at 42 cpht), Inferred Mineral Resources of 13.0 million carats
(23.4 million tonnes at 56 cpht), and 33.0 to 71.1 million carats of
non-resource exploration upside (76.2 to 113.2 million tonnes at grades ranging
from 43 to 63 cpht). Readers are cautioned that the potential quantity and grade
of any such exploration target is conceptual in nature, there has been
insufficient exploration to define a mineral resource, and it is uncertain if
further exploration will result in the target being delineated as a mineral
resource. All kimberlites remain open at depth. The 2018 Updated Mineral
Resource incorporates geological data on kimberlite contacts and internal
geology as revealed through development production and drilling activities at
the Renard Diamond Mine. 
Extending and Optimizing the Mine Plan 
The Renard Diamond Mine provides operating margins over the
life of mine with high-grade material from Renard 2 and 3 kimberlite pipes. The
current mine life based on reserves is 10 years with all kimberlite pipes open
at depth for possible resource upside. 
Stornoway believes the addition of currently defined Inferred
Mineral Resources in additional stopes has the potential to extend the mine plan
to 15 years. 
Figure 15 shows the 2019 Business Case mining sequence based on
the mine plan including Inferred Mineral Resources. 
141 

Processed Kimberlite (PK) Containment Facility

During 2017, Stornoway commissioned a modified method for the
handling and disposal of PK. From the beginning of ore processing, PK was being
de-watered with centrifuges for trucking to a dry-stack disposal site. High
moisture content in the PK reduced its competence for stacking, and made
disposal cumbersome. Under the modified disposal system, fine PK is pumped for
disposal into a modified containment facility, with water outflow collected and
recirculated to the plant or treated at the existing water treatment facility. A
degrit module was installed in the process plant and civil works modifications
completed at the containment facility to accommodate the disposal of the coarse
PK. A modification to the mine’s operating permit in support of these changes
was received on schedule, and the new PK handling and disposal method has been
operating successfully since the beginning of the third quarter of 2017. 
Renard Closure Plan for the Renard Diamond Mine

Under the Mining Act (Québec), the rehabilitation plan
of a mine and closure costs need to be reviewed and submitted to the MERN for
approval every five years. On June 15, 2018 an updated Renard Closure Plan for
the Renard Diamond Mine was submitted to the MERN for approval. Under the
updated Renard Closure Plan, the closure costs are now estimated at $21 million.
The increase in closure costs relate to the addition of new infrastructures such
as the ore waste sorting and the liquid natural gas facilities, additional lands
being impacted by the operations of the Renard Diamond Mine and various changes
and modifications from the original design of the Renard Diamond Mine
infrastructures, which were not reflected as part of the initial Renard Closure
Plan. Approval of the updated Renard Closure Plan by the MERN is expected at the
end of 2019.
Ore-Waste Sorting 
In August 2017, Stornoway introduced a plant improvement
project aimed at improving the quality profile of Renard production. At the
centre of this plan is the introduction of an ore-waste sorting circuit (OSP)
rated at 7,000 tonnes of ore per day, and expandable, designed to extract waste
in the +30mm-200mm size range immediately prior to its introduction to the
secondary cone crusher. The OSP includes covered conveyors, a gravity fed tower containing primary, secondary
and scavenging spectral sorters, and a waste rock load out. Its primary
objective is to reduce waste content in the plant feed ore, for the purpose of
mitigating breakage risk and for the benefit of achieving better diamond
liberation. Secondary benefits of the OSP include a net increase in plant feed
rates, a reduction in power consumption and equipment wear from abrasive waste
processing. Commissioning of the OSP at Renard commenced in March 2018 and by
May 2018 full ramp up was achieved. As per design, the facility has been
successful at removing on average 15% of the waste contained in the plant feed
ore while maintaining a very low kimberlite rejection rate of less than 2%.
142 

Exploration 
Renard 3 
Since the beginning of 2019, Stornoway has been conducting a
program of drilling and sampling at the Renard Diamond Mine with the goal of
converting certain Mineral Resources to Mineral Reserves, and of accelerating
the mining of both the Renard 3 and Renard 4 ore bodies in the Renard mine
plan. 
Renard 3 was mined between 2016 and April 2018 in the Renard
2-Renard 3 open pit to a depth of 120 meters. The current Renard mine plan
contemplates the mining of Renard 3 by underground methods between 2019 and 2020
concurrently to the mining of Renard 2. As of December 31, 2018, Renard 3
comprised 0.88 million carats of Probable Mineral Reserves (0.89 million tonnes
at 99 cpht below the base of the open pit to a depth of 290 meters, and 0.50
million carats of Inferred Mineral Resources (0.42 million tonnes at 117 cpht)
to a depth of 415 meters). In addition, a TFFE has been estimated at between 3.5
and 6.3 million carats below the Inferred Mineral Resources. The potential
quantity and grade of any TFFE is conceptual in nature; there is insufficient
exploration to define a mineral resource and it is uncertain if further
exploration will result in the target being delineated as a mineral
resource. 
In 2014, in drilling undertaken on the Renard 2 kimberlite,
Renard 3 was interpreted to have been intersected fortuitously over 126.6 meters
at a vertical depth of approximately 1,000 meters. The implied true width of
this intersection was a minimum 47 meters, supporting the potential for mineable
widths at Renard 3 even at a considerable depth. 
During the course of 2018, Renard 3 has been successfully
delineated in 5,345 meters of detailed drilling between 255 and 290 meters of
depth, with additional intersections of kimberlite confirmed over mineable
widths to as deep as 315 meters below surface, below which Renard 3 remains
open. The new drilling has confirmed the expected location and width of Renard
3, and the continuation at depth of the high grade Renard 3dg and 3h units that
support the body’s high grade estimate in the Mineral Resource statement. Renard
3 continues to be open at further depth. 
The new data are being incorporated into a revised geological
model and Mineral Resource estimate for Renard 3, with a view to the
incorporation of new Renard 3 Mineral Reserves above the 290 meter level into
the 2019 mining schedule. This will potentially allow two underground sources of
ore feed to be mined simultaneously and provide additional high grade ore feed
to supplement Renard 2 production. 
Renard 4
In the current Renard mine plan, the Renard 4 kimberlite is
scheduled for underground mining between 2026 and 2028, following the completion
of mining at the Renard 2 and Renard 3 kimberlites. As of December 31, 2018, the
Renard 4 kimberlite comprised 4.43 million carats of Indicated Mineral Resources
(7.23 million tonnes at an average grade of 61 cpht), including 1.82 mcarats of
Probable Mineral Reserves (3.69 million tonnes at an average grade of 49 cpht)
in the underground mine plan, as well as 1.98 million carats of Indicated
Mineral Resources (2.91 million tonnes at an average grade of 68 cpht) between
surface and 140 meters depth, and 2.46 million carats of Inferred Mineral
Resources below the Mineral Reserves (4.75 million tonnes at an average grade of
52 cpht). 
143 

Stornoway is investigating the potential for open pit mining at
the Renard 4 and nearby Renard 9 kimberlites to supply additional ore feed
earlier in the mine life. Such a pit would allow the extraction of a portion, or
all, of the approximately two million carats of diamonds in the top 140 meters
of Renard 4. These diamonds are contained within the project’s Indicated Mineral
Resources but are outside the current Mineral Reserve as they occur in the area
of the proposed crown pillar for the Renard 4 underground mine.

During July and August of 2018, a surface bulk sample of
approximately 13,546 tonnes was excavated from the Renard 4 kimberlite at a site
where it occurs close to surface adjacent to Lagopède Lake. In 2007, a 2,104
tonne surface sample located on a nearby outcrop of the high grade kimb4d unit
returned 2,722 carats of diamonds for a grade of 129 cpht. The new sampling is
designed to recover parcels of diamonds from the lower grade kimb4a and kimb4b
units which comprise the remainder of the Renard 4 diatreme. 
A total of 11,646 tonnes of sample were processed through the
main Renard process plant during a three-day period in September. In addition,
approximately 1,900 tonnes of material are being processed through Renard’s 10
tonne per hour bulk sampling plant. Diamond recovery from concentrate is being
conducted at Renard, and at Stornoway’s Vancouver exploration office. Sample
processing and diamond recovery is ongoing. However, to date, a parcel of 574
carats of diamonds have been recovered from the Renard 4b unit (1,287 tonnes at
45 cpht), and 2,444 carats have been recovered from the Renard 4a unit (10,359
tonnes at 24 cpht). Of note, three “special” stones have been recovered so far:
a 14.89 carat white octahedral gem, a 12.42 carat white octahedral gem, and a
11.12 carat brown clivage stone. Initial indications are that the grade, size
distribution and quality assortment of the diamonds recovered are consistent
with previous sampling. 
The results of the current sampling will be used to support an
economic assessment for the potential development of a Renard 4-Renard 9 open
pit, which will require a water retention structure within Lagopède Lake. If
successful, such a pit would provide sufficient ore to take full advantage of
the increased process plant capacity created by the introduction of the OSP.
Other Renard Exploration 
The Renard Property comprises more than 600 mineral claims
providing a 10-12 km buffer around the Renard Diamond Mine. In addition to the
nine known kimberlite pipes in the Renard core area (five of which are in the
present mine plan), there are at least eleven additional kimberlite dykes on the
property. During March and April 2018, three light reverse circulation (RC)
drill rigs tested a total of 91 geophysical anomalies situated throughout the
Renard Property. Certain promising lake targets were not tested due to
deteriorating ice conditions. Kimberlite chips were recovered at three targets,
indicating the presence of dyke-like bodies, and chips of Country Rock Breccia
(CRB) or related alteration were recovered at nine targets. CRB is a clast
supported breccia, with or without kimberlitic components, and at Renard is an
integral part of the volcanic emplacement process. It forms a halo around the
kimberlite pipes, and commonly has gradational contacts with the main
volcanoclastic kimberlite units. While RC drilling facilitates rapid cost
effective preliminary testing of targets, core drilling will be required to
follow up the CRB discoveries for adjacent or blind kimberlite diatremes. 
144 

SCHEDULE E - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE MANTOS
BLANCOS MINE 
Most Recent Technical Report 
The most recent technical report filed by Osisko in accordance
with NI 43-101 is entitled “NI 43-101 Technical Report on the Mantos Blancos
Mine, II Region, Chile”, effectively dated June 23, 2017 (the “Mantos Blancos
Report”). Reference should be made to the full text of the Mantos Blancos
Report. The Mantos Blancos Report is not and shall not be deemed to be
incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form.
Information Contained in this Section 
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from the Mantos Blancos Report, which may be consulted under
Osisko’s issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 
The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein. 
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited access to properties included in its asset portfolio. Additionally,
Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which it is not
permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the operators of the
properties and their qualified persons to provide information to Osisko to
prepare required disclosure pertaining to properties and operations on the
properties on which Osisko holds interests and generally has limited or no
ability to independently verify such information. Although Osisko does not have
any knowledge that such information may not be accurate, there can be no
assurance that such third party information is complete or accurate. 
Project Description, Location and Access 
The Mantos Blancos mining district is located in the II Region
of Antofagasta, northern Chile. The property is centered on latitude 23°25'0"S
and longitude 70°4'60"W, approximately 45 km to the northeast of the city of
Antofagasta and approximately 20 km to the southwest of the town of Baquedano.
The properties are easily accessed using Route 5 connecting Antofagasta with
Calama. Cerro Moreno airport is serviced by national flights from Santiago and
other destinations on a daily basis. The airport is located approximately 17 km
to the north of Antofagasta. Antofagasta itself is strategically located on the
Panamericana highway, a well- maintained, multi-lane highway. There is also a
railroad line available, which is used to transport supplies. 
145 

Mantos Copper S.A (MC) owns 100% of the Mantos Blancos Mine,
composed of 85 mining properties covering an area of 7,848 ha and 33 exploration
rights claims totaling 19,130 ha. 
Production from the Mantos Blancos Mine is subject to the
Mantos Stream Agreement.
One of the risks to the Mine is the receipt of permit approval
from the various government agencies. No significant risks and uncertainties
that could reasonably be expected to affect the reliability or confidence in the
exploration information, the Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves estimates,
or associated projected economic outcomes has been identified. 
History 
The economic importance of the district has been known since
1883, when David Cervantes and Carlos Mercado, discovered veins of oxidized
copper ore deposited in the hills located north of the road connecting
Antofagasta and Lomas Bayas (the Panamericana highway). 
In 1953, after various exploration works, the Hochschild Group
acquired part of this ore deposit. Subsequently, in 1955 and after the first
exploration works started using churn-drill drillings, the Hochschild group,
together with other investors and CORFO (a Chilean government industrial
development entity), formed Empresa Minera Mantos Blancos S.A. Studies were
conducted indicating the presence of 11 million tonnes of ore with an average
grade of 1.90% soluble copper. This is a historical estimate only, and a
qualified person has not done sufficient work to classify the historical
estimate as current mineral resources or mineral reserves. None of Osisko, the
Orion Parties or Mantos Blancos is treating the historical estimate as current
mineral resources or mineral reserves. For a statement of current mineral
resources and mineral reserves, see the heading “Mineral Resource and Mineral
Reserve Estimates” below. 
Mantos Blancos has been in production since 1960 as an open pit
mine, with an oxide plant and smelting operations. The mine has long been one of
the major copper mines in the region, with annual refined copper output reaching 20 kt in 1962, at peak production of
ingots and a minor amount of cement of copper. In 1961 the exploitation of oxide
ore through “pits” began, which was treated in a leaching plant, with capacity
of 100,000 tonnes per month. The gradual decline of the grades led the company
to an expansion of the plan in order to maintain production; and so, as in 1967,
capacity increased to 200,000 tonnes per month. With some modifications, in 1978
it reached a capacity of 250,000 tonnes per month. 
146 

Between 1963 and 1964, the Mala Suerte mine, being property of
Andromeda Mining Company (owned by Mr. Bartolomé Marré), partially supplied
Mantos Blancos plant with production of 2,000 tonnes per month with grades
around 3.5% SCu. Production history prior to this date is imprecise. Between
1965 and 1968, production averaged 3,000 tons per month, with an average grade
of 2.5% soluble copper. 
In 1974 the underground exploitation of Mantos Blancos started,
due to the discovery of large reserves of high grade sulphide ore. Between 1968
and 1980 fine copper production averaged 32 ktpa. 
The construction of the flotation plant to treat sulphide ores
began in 1980, when Anglo American acquired 40% of the mine, and four years
later the mine became a main associate of the company. The flotation plant began
operation in March 1981, with a capacity of 4,000 tpd, and a head grade of 1.90%
Cu insoluble and 19 ppm of Ag, reaching a fine copper production of 45 ktpa in
1981. From this year fine copper production incorporated concentrates, in
addition to ingots and cement of copper. 
By mid-1993, pre-stripping began for the Santa Barbara project,
which basically consists of the union of the four existing pits (Elvira, Marina,
Tercera and Quinta, including the underground works) with the aim of maximizing
the recovery of the mineralized zones of the deposit. In December 1996, the
exploitation of underground ore of Mantos Blancos temporarily ended, with the
extraction of the Patricia ore body. From this year on, copper production comes
from concentrates and cathodes. 
The last major milestone was in the year 2000, when Anglo
American reached 99.97% ownership of the Mining Company of Mantos Blancos S.A.,
which also included the Mantoverde Division in Chañaral. In this year fine
copper production reached a peak of 102 ktpa. 
From 2012, the exploitation of Santa Barbara project has fed
the leaching plant and electrowinning with 4.5 Mt of copper oxide ore, with a
head grade of 0.70% SCu, and a flotation plant with 4.5 Mt of copper sulphide
with head grade of 1.10% ICu. 
In 2015, the Mantos Blancos Mine was acquired by Mantos, which
is owned by Audley Advisors Limited and Orion Fund JV Limited. 
Geological Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

The Mantos Blancos deposit is located within the coastal range
in Region II of Antofagasta, Chile. The deposit is a volcanic-hosted,
strata-bound copper deposit emplaced during the Upper Jurassic, related to a
system of hydrothermal breccia feeder structures that intruded into the
Paleozoic metasedimentary basement and the La Negra formation, which includes
the mineralized Mantos Blancos volcanic sequence. In a general context, the
Coastal Range in northern Chile is mainly formed by volcanic rocks of Jurassic
age, intruded by granitoids emplaced between the Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous.
In the Mantos Blancos Mining District, sedimentary, volcanic and igneous rocks
are observed ranging in age from Paleozoic and Cenozoic, which represent a
volcanic paleo-arc developed during the Jurassic that would consist of the
Volcanic Sequence Mantos Blancos and the La Negra Formation. These units are
affected by a set of faults located west of the district, who are immersed in
the domain of Atacama's fault zone and are part of the Salar del Carmen segment.

Mineralization at Mantos Blancos occurs as lenses within
specific lithologies. The lenses have been displaced by faults. The porphyritic
dacite unit is the most favourable for mineralization and contains the largest
number of high grade bodies. Mineralized bodies extend discontinuously for
approximately 3 km in an E-W direction, with an approximate width of 1.5 km and
thickness of 450 m. 
147 

Sulphide minerals include chalcopyrite, bornite, silver-rich
digenite and pyrite. This assemblage occurs as disseminations, veinlets and as
rims on quartz phenocrysts within the rhyolitic dome, which developed mainly
within the dioritic and granodioritic magmatic-hydrothermal breccia pipes.
Mineralisation shows lateral copper grade zoning. The highest grade occurs
within the breccia pipe, with lateral zoning to progressively lower
concentrations. 
The mineralization consists of chalcocite (and / or digenite),
covellite, bornite, chalcopyrite, pyrite, specularite, magnetite, galena and low
sphalerite, occurring in disseminated form, following irregular guides and
discontinuous with varying thicknesses. The oxidized copper correspond to
atacamite, chrysocolla, and minor malachite, antlerite, tenorite, cuprite and
almagres, according dissemination and fracture filling. Silver presence occurs
in the crystal structure of the copper sulphides and occasionally as native
silver. The ore bodies are irregular lenses and oxidized copper sulfides
arranged in tabular form with a 100-200 m thick strongly controlled by
structures. 
The mineralization has a distinct vertical zonation, with
specularite at the top (porphyritic andesite and Superior andesite), which is
followed in depth an area of oxidized copper (atacamite with chrysocolla low),
moving to a zone of high grade Sulphide (chalcocite-bornite). The latter
corresponds to irregular lenses chalcocite- rich center, which decreases towards
the edge going to predominate bornite. Surrounding these lenses is a zone of
lower grade with chalcopyrite and bornite, ending in depth with a pyritic zone,
occasionally in some sectors associated with chalcopyrite. The areas with
secondary enrichment are of small extent, predominantly covellite over
chalcocite and located near major faults of the deposit. The oxidized copper
would have developed by the in situ oxidation of primary sulphides. 
Mantos Blancos is a stratabound hydrothermal copper deposit
with subordinate silver mineralization hosted in a riodacitic volcanic complex
where copper mineralization is strongly controlled by structures. Stratabound
hydrothermal copper deposits are mainly associated with hydrothermal breccia
feeder structures that contain at least 50% of the economic mineralization and
the highest ore grade. The mineralization at Mantos Blancos is concentrated
within a dacitic lava package dipping south between 18° and 25° in the main
mineralized area. 
Exploration 
Ongoing exploration is conducted by Mantos Blancos with the
primary purpose of supporting mining and increasing Mineral Resources available
for mining exploitation. The exploration strategy is focused on tracing known
targets as extensions from current orebodies utilizing host rock and alteration
features down dip and along strike. Historically, this strategy has proven
effective in defining new Mineral Resources.
Drilling 
Mantos Blancos collects two different types of sample for
geological modelling and resource estimation, diamond drill hole core (DDH) and
reverse circulation drill chips (RC). Diamond drill holes (DDH) were drilled
historically, and most are located in the mined-out part of the mine. DDH are no
longer being drilled at Mantos Blancos, except for geotechnical or
geometallurgical purposes. 
Mantos Blancos conducted drill programs for exploration and
mine development purposes. The 2016 resource model update considered the
inclusion of 362 new drill samples and 90,611 metres, distributed as RC, DDH and
sonic (dumps). The new drillings included drill holes from the 2014 drilling
campaigns (drill holes not included in the previous resource model), 2015, and
also included 89,000 metres from the 2012, 2013 and 2014 campaigns delayed as a
result of the implementation of the QA/QC program. 
For the update of the 2016 model, a total of 15,643 drill holes
with a total of 2,274,947 metres were used, corresponding to all drillings
accumulated up to the date of closing of the database. 
148 

The collar surveying at the Mantos Blancos mine is obtained
using high precision GPS and total station for the surface data. Daily
operational surveying is undertaken with either GPS or total station and prism.
Mantos Blancos adopted the local coordinate system based on UTM coordinates.

For the 2014 and 2015 drilling campaigns, down hole surveys
were measured by Wellfield Services with an SRG gyroscope. Measures were taken
each 10 metres over the depth of the drillhole, and a second measurement is
taken when the equipment is lifted. Also as a QA/QC procedure 10% of the drill
holes were re-surveyed, with most of the holes showing little deviation. 
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification 
Reverse Circulation Samples 
Since 2009, RC samples are taken at regular 6.0 metre
intervals, weighing approximately 120 kg per 6.0 metre interval. The material is
dropped directly from the cyclone to a riffle splitter. The cyclone has a lever
at the side used to open the bin at the end of the sample interval. Both
portions of the sample are directly passed twice through two splitters located
in series to obtain four equally sized samples. Each sample is passed through
another splitter to obtain the sample that will be sent to mechanical
preparation. The samples are put into plastic bags, weighed at the site, and the
values are recorded manually. 
Sample Preparation 
The mechanical sample preparation of RC and DDH samples is
conducted in Inspectorate laboratory in Antofagasta. 

 
 
 • 
 
 Cleaning: before each batch of samples the crusher is
 cleaned with quartz, and the material is discarded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Blank sample: the first sample of each batch corresponds
 to the quartz, and this sample follows the entire cycle until chemical
 analysis to check for the presence of contamination. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Primary/Secondary Crushing: the entire sample is crushed
 to 95% passing 2.36 mm particle size. For 1 in each 30 samples a
 granulometric test is carried to check particle size. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Splitting: depending on the weight of the sample the
 splitting follows one of two procedures, 

 
 
 
 • 
 
 Samples > 15 kg use a rotary splitter until 1.5 to 2
 kg is obtained. The sample is passed through a Jones splitter until 300 g
 remains. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Samples < 15 kg are split with
 a Jones splitter until 300 g is obtained. 

 
 
 • 
 
 In both situations, one duplicate is obtained every 20
 samples. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pulverization: the entire sample is pulverised with an
 LM1 until 95% of the sample passes < 0.104 mm. For one in every 30
 samples, a granulometric test is carried out to check particle size.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The sample is then put into a paper envelope, labelled
 with a bar code and sent to the chemical lab for assaying.
 
Assaying 
For TCu and Pb, 1 g of sample is taken, 10 ml of HNO3, 5ml of
HClO4 and 15 ml of HF are added, a cold digestion is carried out for one hour
and then salts are dissolved with 25 ml of HCl and filled to 100 ml. 
149 

For SCu 0.5 g of sample is taken, 50 ml of H2SO4 are added, it
is stirred for 20 minutes at 140 rpm, then transferred to 100 ml and flocculant
is added (boiling method). 
For Ag, 2 g of the sample is taken, 10 ml of HNO3, 5 ml of
HClO4 and 15 ml of HF are added, a cold digestion is carried out for one hour
and then salts are dissolved with 12.5 ml of HCl and filled into 50 ml. 
For carbonate (Ca3), weigh 0.1 g of sample (in a refractory
crucible), 1 g of accelerator is added and LECO equipment is used. 
Sample Security 
Drill core is moved from the drill rig to the core shack by
external personnel. In the core shack, geological data logging is completed at
site using a digital system. Before the data is available for estimation
purposes, data is verified and reviewed, field checked if necessary, and then
uploaded to the main database. Samples are delivered by Mantos Blancos for
sample preparation at the laboratory. 
Mantos Blancos uses BDGeo as the system to coordinate and
handle the complete data input process. The database is backed up on a regular
basis. 
All Mantos Blancos samples are stored and secured in the mine
site under good conditions to ensure their quality. 
Quality Assurance and Quality Control 
All QA/QC is handled online automatically using BDGeo
software®. QA/QC procedures include the insertion of a control sample of:
standards, pulp and coarse duplicates, and blank samples into every batch of
samples sent to the laboratories. The creation of the batch is done on site in
BDGeo by personnel of Mantos Blancos, and include 1 standard, 1 blank, 1 coarse
and 1 pulp duplicate. Sample batches contain 20 samples. 
The quality assessment over the 2015 campaign was controlled
through standards insertion (certificated in OREAS-Australia). Apart of
standards, coarse and pulp duplicates have been used. The insertion rate is 5%
for each stage of control. The mass reduction of samples was carried out by
Inspectorate Company and the chemical analysis was made by SGS Chile Ltda.
Coarse, pulp and standards (internal checks) verifications were also carried out
in this last laboratory. 
The quality control procedure (standards, blanks, and
duplicates) have acceptable levels of accuracy and precision, the preparation of
sample and laboratory results have been controlled. 
Certified Reference Material 
Mantos Blancos routinely inserts Certified Reference Materials
(CRMs) or standards into the analytical stream to assess the assaying laboratory
for accuracy and to determine if there is any bias present. The material used
for the construction of the standards is from the mine and prepared and
certified by external laboratories. Standards cover a range of TCu
concentrations to appropriate represent different ranges. The result of the
standards are good and no obvious issues with the exactitude were identified.
The tolerance limit for acceptance are +- 2 standard deviations. If the standard
value is out of the defined limit the complete batch is sent back to the
laboratory for analysis. 
Blank Samples 
Blank samples are inserted into the sampling stream as a QA/QC
check for sample contamination and is inserted as part of the batch sent for
mechanical preparation. The material used as blank is obtained from blast holes
with TCu grades of 0.01 % which were logged as rhyodacite. There is no evidence
of contamination during the mechanical preparation. 
150 

Duplicate Samples 
The duplicates are prepared and inserted on-site, and include
two types of samples: 

 
 • 
 Coarse Duplicate: correspond to a
 second portion of material obtained after the first crushing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pulp Duplicate: correspond to a second portion of
 material obtained after the pulverization of the sample.

The protocol details that the duplicate of a sample must be
sent in a different batch than the one used for the original sample. The result
of the coarse and pulp duplicates were acceptable and no obvious issues with the
accuracy were identified. 
Data Verification 
Data verification has been an integral part of Mantos Blancos
drilling campaigns and resource estimation. As part of the protocols all sample
rejects and pulp samples are appropriately stored inside shipping containers
modified for this purpose. Inside the containers samples are properly organized
and stored. The database for the resource Model is extracted directly through
the DBGEO © interface software. This software is a geological database
administrator, which validates the information according to the primary key. For
data validation purposes and to avoid errors in the Resource Model construction
the database is analyzed prior to the compositing. This verification includes
consistence between different tables, existence of gaps and duplicity of
information. 
A set of data validation queries was completed using Vulcan and
internal software (Datacheck) and no important validation issues was found. 
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
The copper recovery considered for vat and dump leaching was
defined assuming the average of the last twelve months, which was used to update
the recovery model considering the metallurgic balance, tonnage and chemical
grades. 
The sulphide copper recovery in the concentrator was based on
the geometallurgical model for the first five years (2017 – 2021) that
considered the laboratory samples. For the following years (after 2022), the
copper recovery was defined assuming the average of the last twelve months -
that includes metallurgic balance, tonnage and chemical grades - which are used
to update the polynomial recovery curve. 
Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimates 
Mineral Resources 
The geological modelling of the Mantos Blancos mine considers
the construction of two models. 

 
 
 • 
 
 Lithology model, this model is not fused for any
 estimation purpose, and only for geometallurgical considerations. The
 lithological model was developed by Mantos Blancos geologists using a
 probabilistic model considering the lithological description from the
 geological mapping of rock units present in Mantos Blancos.
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Dike model, this model is constructed deterministically
 by interpretation in sections and uses information form drill holes and
 bench logging. 3D solids are constructed based on the sectional
 interpretation and the block model (with small blocks) is flagged. The
 dike model has not been updated since 2015. 
 

151 

The lithology model is based on the probability of the
existence of a specific rock unit. This probability is estimated by
interpolation of indicators that are based on the rock codes extracted from the
database. Mantos Blancos used a probability threshold of 50% to assign the
blocks to a given unit. Mantos Blancos found a few cases where there were equal
probabilities for multiple units and these cases were solved by taking into
account the unit that was predominant in the local neighborhood. 
The dike model is not used for grade estimation. During the
estimation it is assumed that grades are continuous across units in the deposit,
and then the dike model is used for dilution assuming a TCu grade of 0% for all
complete and partial dike blocks (the dike model is constructed with small
blocks 5 x 5 x 5 m). 
The drill hole database used for resource estimation contains
15,643 drill holes (drill type: DDH, RCD, Sonic drilling for dump). The
information used in the current resource model is equivalent to 2,274,947
metres. 
Resource Classification 
The Mineral Resources were classified by two indicators
probabilistic methodology, which uses grade kriging variance as classification
thresholds. The method is based on relative errors in metal and tonnage
calculated for monthly and annual production periods using spatial indicators
and grade variability models. 
The Mineral Resources are classified as measured when the local
grade, whose variability is corrected to 1-month of production, is estimated
with an error that is not greater than 15% with a 90% level of confidence. 
Mineral Resources are classified as indicated when the local
grade, whose variability is corrected to 1-year of production, is estimated with
an error not greater than 15% with a 90% level of confidence. 
Mineral Resources that do not comply with the aforementioned
criteria are classified as inferred. 
To avoid the extrapolation effect, only Mineral Resources
within the approved drilled and sampled perimeter were considered for
classification. 
Mineral Resource Estimates 
The Mineral Resource estimates for Mantos Blancos are shown in
Tables 1 and Table 2. The resource is separated by material type. The mineral
resource estimate uses ordinary kriging grades as these are believed to be the
most robust. The deposit has silver mineralization which is not currently
included in the Resource estimate, and will not be until an appropriate
validation is completed. Based on the current resource model, Mantos Blancos
estimation for silver content for sulphide mineralization inside the Mineral
Resources pit indicates a total of 99 Mt with an average grade of 4.88 g/t.
Mineral Resources are enclosed within pit shells that were optimized using
Measured, Indicated and Inferred resources at a copper price of US$3.77 USD/lb.

Table 1 
Mineral Resources inclusive of Reserves as of December 31,
2016 - Sulphides - Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category
 
 Tonnes
 (000 t) (2) 
 Grade
 % ICu (3) 
 Current Contained
 Cu (t) (4) 
 
 Sulphide(Flotation
 and LF)(1) 
 Measured 
 14,344 
 0.71 
 101,771 
 
 Indicated 
 62,390 
 0.54 
 336,906 
 
 Measured +
 Indicated 
 76,724 
 0.57 
 438,677 
 
 Inferred (inside
 reserve pit) 
 3,253 
 0.52 
 16,916 
 
 Inferred (outside
 reserve pit) 
 19,209 
 0.50 
 96, 045 
 
 Inferred
 stockpile (Cancha 90) 
 21 
 0.38 
 80 
 
 Total Inferred
 
 22,483 
 0.50
 
 113,040
Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.26% ICu.
 
 (2) 
 
 Tonnes on dry basis.
 
 (3) 
 
 Copper grade based on Insoluble Copper (ICu).
 
 (4) 
 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the following
 formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x 10 (% ICu) x 10.
 
 (5) 
 
 Mineral Resource pit is based on 3.77 US$/lb of
 Cu.
152 

Table 2 
Mineral Resources inclusive of Reserves as of December 31,
2016 - Oxides - Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category
 
 Tonnes
 (000 t) (3) 
 Grade
 % ICu (4) 
 Current Contained
 Cu (t) (5)
 
 Oxide
 (Heap and Vat Leaching)(1)

 Measured 
 2,427 
 0.43 
 10,436 
 
 Indicated 
 9,027 
 0.39 
 35,205 
 
 Measured +
 Indicated 
 11,454 
 0.40
 
 45,641 
 
 Inferred (inside
 reserve pit) 
 460 
 0.35 
 1,610 
 
 Inferred (outside
 reserve pit) 
 4,438 
 0.42 
 18,640 
 
 Total Inferred
 
 4,898 
 0.41
 
 20,250 
 
 Oxide (Dump
 Leaching)(2) 
 Measured 
 458 
 0.18 
 824 
 
 Indicated 
 5,611 
 0.17 
 9,539 
 
 Measured +
 Indicated 
 6,069 
 0.17
 
 10,363 
 
 Inferred in situ
 (inside reserve pit) 
 633 
 0.17 
 1,076 
 
 Inferred in situ
 (outside reserve pit) 
 2,702 
 0.17 
 4,593 
 
 Inferred (in LOM)
 Mercedes F2 
 21,996 
 0.19 
 41,792 
 
 Inferred (in LOM)
 F2 Botadero E 
 6,053 
 0.18 
 10,895 
 
 Total Inferred
 
 31,384 
 0.19
 
 58,357

Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.22% permits that are considered in the
 matrix of identification and SCu.
 
 (2) 
 
 Cut-off of 0.13% SCu.
 
 (3) 
 
 Tonnes on dry basis.
 
 (4) 
 
 Copper grade based on Soluble Copper (SCu).
 
 (5) 
 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the following
 formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% SCu) x 10.
 
 (6) 
 
 Mineral Resource pit is based on 3.77 US$/lb of
 Cu.

Mineral Reserves 
The Mineral Reserves as of December 31, 2016, are presented in
Table 3 and Table 4. A Level 1 Mineral Reserves audit was carried out for Mantos
Blancos Division according the JORC Code (2012). The activities developed
included a review of input data, methodology, and results supporting the 2016
LoM.
153 

Table 3 
Mineral Reserves inclusive of Resources as of December 31,
2016 - Sulphides - Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category 
 Tonnes
 (000 t)(3) 
 Grade
 % ICu(3) 
 Current Contained
 Cu (t)(4) 
 
 Sulphides(Flotation) (1) 
 Proved 
 27,132 
 0.86 
 233,335 
 
 Probable 
 54,021 
 0.60 
 323,110 
 
 Total 
 81,153 
 0.69
 
 556,445

Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.26% ICu.
 
 (2) 
 
 Tonnes on dry basis.
 
 (3) 
 
 Copper grade based on Insoluble Copper (ICu).
 
 (4) 
 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the following
 formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% ICu) x 10.
Table 4 
Mineral Reserves inclusive of Resources s of December 31,
2016 - Oxides - Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category 
 Tonnes (000
 t)(3) 
 Grade %
 SCu(4) 
 Current Contained
 Cu (t)(5) 
 
 Oxides (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved 
 1,720 
 0.35 
 6,020 
 
 Probable 
 11,825 
 0.29 
 33,853 
 
 Total 
 13,545 
 0.29 
 39,873 
 
 Este Stockpile (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 Probable 
 11,378 
 0.18 
 20,480 
 
 Total 
 11,378 
 0.18 
 20,480 
 
 Mercedes Stockpile (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 Probable 
 36,639 
 0.19 
 69,614 
 
 Total 
 36,639 
 0.19 
 69,614 
 
 Oxides (Heap and Vat
 Leaching)(2) 
 Proved 
 1,004 
 0.46 
 4,618 
 
 Probable 
 2,852 
 0.45 
 12,834 
 
 Total 
 3,856 
 0.45 
 17,452 
154 

Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.13% SCu.
 
 (2) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.22% SCu.
 
 (3) 
 
 Tonnes on dry basis.
 
 (4) 
 
 Copper grade based on soluble copper (SCu).
 
 (5) 
 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the following
 formula: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% SCu) x 10.
Mantos Copper maintains a reconciliation between the Mineral
Reserve model and actual mine production. Reconciliations to 2016 production
indicate that the Mineral Resource model is performing well for sulphide ore
with the normal range of variability (± 10%). The long-term model for oxide ore
has consistently reported more tonnage (19% higher in the period) and copper
grade (11% higher in the period). 
Mining Operations 
Mantos Blancos is an open pit mine extracting both sulphide and
oxide copper ores, which are treated in crushing, milling, concentrator,
leaching, solvent extraction and electro-winning plants, producing copper
concentrates and high purity (LME Grade A) copper cathodes. 
The Mantos Blancos Mine includes one large open pit (Santa
Barbara) that provides sulphide ore to feed the concentrator and oxide ore to
the leach pads. Other sources of ore in the Mantos Blancos Mine are sulphide ore
stock (Cancha 90) and oxide ore stocks (Mercedes and Este). 
The Mineral Resources reported as of December 31, 2016 are
based on the resources model developed in June 2016 and used to define the LoM
that consists of ten pushbacks which will be mined during the period from 2017
to 2029. The total material (ore and waste) moved increases by 30.2 Mt in 2017
to 60.0 Mt in 2020, remaining at this level until 2026 when it begins to
decrease until 2029. Considering the ore re-handle from stockpiles to
concentrator and the oxide ore to the Mercedes dump, the total material moved
reaches 62.1 Mt in 2024. 
The cut-off grades were defined based on economic parameters
for the three metallurgical processes used in Mantos Blancos mine, adopting the
values of 0.26% (Insoluble copper - ICu), 0.22% (Soluble copper - SCu) and 0.13%
(Soluble copper - SCu) for flotation, Vat and Dump leaching respectively. 
Processing and Recovery Operations 
Oxide ore from the mine is processed using a combination of
vat, dump, and heap leaching. Currently, vats process 1.5 Mtpa of oxide ore.
Dump leaching is used to process around 5.9 to 15.0 Mtpa from the Este and
Mercedes dumps. The vat and dump leaching processes end in 2019. 
Treatment of the copper-rich pregnant leach solution occurs in
the solvent extraction-electrowinning plant to produce copper cathodes. The
maximum production capacity is 65 ktpa of fine copper. The life of mine plan for
the solvent extraction-electrowinning cathode plant considered a fine copper
production of 18.0 ktpa up to 2018 and 13.4 ktpa in 2019. 
Sulphide ore is processed in the concentrator plant, where
copper concentrate is produced, with an average grade ranging from 29% to 33%.
The sulphide processing plant will operate at a throughput capacity of 4.7 Mtpa
from 2017 to 2019 when the ramp-up of the new sulphide line is expected to
start, increasing the processing plant capacity up to 7.3 Mtpa from 2021.
According to the life of mine plan, the concentrator will produce 25.7 ktpa of
fine copper (contained) in 2017, reaching the maximum production of 57.2 ktpa in
2023. 
In order to maintain the copper production and use the sulphide
ore reserves available at deeper levels of the deposit, Mantos Blancos has
developed an expansion plan to increase the current processing level of 4.7 Mtpa
up to 7.3 Mtpa, starting in 2020. Mantos Copper has contracted Hatch for the
related engineering studies to develop technical solutions, estimating
capex and opex, and defining the plan for implementing the facilities expansion.
155 

Current Mineral Processing 
The current ore processing at Mantos Blancos has two operating
lines, one for sulphide ore and the other for oxide ore. When the Mantos Blancos
Mine operation began, the oxide line was the most important due to the
processing of oxidized and mixed ores mined in the upper portions of the
deposit. With the deepening of the mine, these materials became more scarce and
consequently the cathode production has decreased. For these reasons Mantos
Copper is conducting studies on increasing the sulphide processing capacity to
compensate for the production of the oxide operation that will be shut down.

Infrastructure, Permitting and Compliance Activities

Access 
The Mantos Blancos Mine is accessed by paved public roads. The
mine has a number of private roads for access to the various facilities. The
private roads include small vehicle roads as well as a network of haul roads.
The haul roads are built to a width suitable for the haul trucks. Most
consumables and personnel are transported these routes by light vehicles. 
Buildings and Facilities 
The infrastructure for the Mantos Blancos mine is developed and
in service. Figure 3.1 shows the general layout of Mantos Blancos
infrastructure.

The main facilities in the Mantos Blancos Mine are the Santa
Barbara pit, the Argentina Norte dump, the Fase 8 dump, the Este dump, the Oeste
dump, the concentrator plant, the vats, the coarse tailings deposit, the fine
tailings deposit, the Mercedes stockpile, the Mercedes dump, secondary leaching
piles, and the solvent extraction - electrowinning plant. Ancillary facilities
in the mine are workshops and warehouses, administrative buildings and offices
and explosives and chemicals storage. 
156 

Water Supply 
Water is supplied by Ferrocarriles Antofagasta Bolivia (FCAB)
and Aguas Antofagasta. Water is pumped and transported by pipelines from Siloli
and Toconce, located approximately 250 km from the Mantos Blancos Mine.
Currently, the water consumption of the Mantos Blancos site is 10,000
m3/day, and the maximum storage capacity is 17,000 m3.

Due to the reduction of the material treated in the vats,
reduction of processing in the dump leach and optimization of the water recovery
in the tailings, the estimated water consumption for the life of the mine does
not exceed the 145 l/s value contracted with FCAB and Aguas Antofagasta, except
in the years 2017 and 2018, where it will be supplied based on an additional
contract. 
The industrial water supply contract of 130 l/s with Aguas
Antofagasta ends in 2023, with a clause allowing a first renewal for five years
until 2028, and a second extension for the same time until 2033. A contract with
FCAB to supply 15 l/s of better quality water to be used in specific processes
ends in 2018. Mantos Blancos plans to renew this contract during 2017. The
Mantos Blancos site does not have a water intake permit. 
Power 
Electrical power is provided by ENORCHILE and delivered to the
mine through a high voltage power line (220 kV) connected to the national grid.
The Mantos Blancos site has a power plant managed by an external company and
connected to the national grid as well. The current electrical power supply
contracts are sufficient to comply with the demands according to the mine plan.

Communications 
The mine site has a communication network of telephones and
licensed UHF radio repeaters within the main pit mining area. Outside this area
the communication is by means of UHF CB radio, satellite phone, and cellular
phone. 
Tailings Storage Facility 
Tailings from the concentrator plant are separated into fine
and coarse tailings. Currently, tailings production is 4.42 Mtpa, including 1.76
Mtpa of fine tailings and 2.66 Mtpa of coarse tailings. 
Social or Community Impact 
The Mantos Blancos area of influence includes the city of
Antofagasta, and Baquedanoa, a small community of 900 people located 20 km north
of the mine. The engagement plan developed by Mantos Copper focuses on the
following three pillars of action: 

 
 • 
 
 Education: providing quality educational establishments
 in the area of influence and development through support of talented
 students; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sustainable communities: supporting projects to improve
 the quality of life of the local people and the quality of the
 environment; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Entrepreneurship and employability: providing technical
 to micro and small businesses from different industries in the area of
 influence and development, along with improving the employability of
 vulnerable groups. 
157 

Permitting 
Environmental studies are ongoing and conducted as required to
support the operation and any ancillary projects. The qualified persons for the
Mantos Blancos Technical Report are not aware of any known environmental issues
that could materially impact Mantos Blancos' ability to operate. 
The permit classification adopted by Mantos Copper is divided
into the following categories: 

 
 • 
 
 Approved: current licenses with a control plan of
 the commitments and monitoring included. This category includes licenses
 that have been corrected or rectified; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In process: licenses that have been submitted to
 the competent departments, or those do not have the total of commitments
 or without a control plan of the commitments and monitoring included. This
 category includes permits in process that were refused by the authorities
 or withdrawn by Mantos Copper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pending: licenses that have been identified as
 necessary but not submitted, awaiting approval of previous stages of
 projects. This category could be classified as "In preparation" or "In
 planning"; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In preparation: permit that is in preparation or
 under internal review; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In planning: permits that are considered in the
 matrix of identification and that have been reported to the corresponding
 areas as necessary; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Closed: permits that have complied with its term
 of validity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In 2016, twenty-three new permits were approved and
 eleven were in process. 
Capital and Operating Costs 
Capital Costs 
Table 5 provides the capital costs (CAPEX) from 2017 to 2029.
The total CAPEX for the life of mine plan is USD$228.5 million. 
Table 5 
Capital Costs 

 
 Description 
 Unit 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 
 Mining fleet 
 MUSD 
 
 
 2.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sulphide concentrator 
 MUSD 
 2.3 
 1.2 
 0.9 
 0.4 
 1.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oxide plant 
 MUSD 
 4.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tailings dam 
 MUSD 
 
 
 1.3 
 4.8 
 2.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Infrastructure 
 MUSD 
 1.8 
 0.9 
 2.5 
 0.6 
 0.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Minor projects 
 MUSD 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Deferred Capex MB Project 
 MUSD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.3 
 17.1 
 16.2 
 3.9 
 
 
 
 
158 

 
 Description 
 Unit 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 
 Stay-in- business - Long-term (3% of direct
 cost) 
 MUSD 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.8 
 5.9 
 6.0 
 6.0 
 5.9 
 4.6 
 4.5 
 
 
 
 Expansionary Capex 
 MUSD 
 
 6.6 
 81.9 
 32.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 MUSD 
 9.1 
 9.0 
 89.2 
 38.9 
 4.4 
 5.8 
 8.2 
 23.1 
 22.1 
 9.7 
 4.6 
 4.5 
 
Operating Costs 
The operating costs for Mantos Blancos are developed annually
as part of the site budget process. The OPEX is shown in the tables below. The
average operating cost (C1 cash cost) from 2017 to 2029 is 2.10 USD/lb. The
operating cost estimates in the LoM plan are considered to be reasonable and
consistent with historical performance. The concentrate produced by Mantos
Blancos contains silver that is also commercialized. Table 6 shows the unit
cost. 
Table 6
Cash Cost 

 
 Description 
 Unit 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 
 Mining Cost 
 c/lb 
 79.5 
 97.4 
 104.6 
 141.0 
 96.7 
 89.7 
 89.2 
 103.8 
 113.4 
 110.6 
 64.0 
 50.3 
 8.5 
 
 Processing Cost 
 c/lb 
 107.6 
 115.3 
 101.0 
 74.6 
 65.0 
 64.3 
 58.4 
 64.7 
 71.3 
 71.3 
 69.7 
 83.8 
 94.8 
 
 G&A 
 c/lb 
 19.5 
 20.3 
 19.0 
 15.5 
 10.6 
 10.1 
 9.5 
 10.5 
 11.6 
 11.6 
 11.3 
 11.6 
 16.8 
 
 C0 
 c/lb 
 206.7 
 233.1 
 224.5 
 231.1 
 172.3 
 164.2 
 157.0 
 179.0 
 196.3 
 193.5 
 145.0 
 145.6 
 120.1 
 
 Freight 
 c/lb 
 4.1 
 4.1 
 4.6 
 5.4 
 5.3 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.0 
 4.6 
 
 TCRC 
 c/lb 
 14.1 
 13.9 
 17.4 
 25.6 
 25.3 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 22.2 
 17.4 
 
 C1 (before by- products) 
 c/lb 
 224.8 
 251.1 
 246.5 
 262.1 
 202.9 
 195.1 
 188.0 
 209.9 
 227.2 
 224.5 
 176.0 
 172.8 
 142.1 
 
 By-products credit 
 c/lb 
 9.2 
 1.5 
 15.3 
 17.7 
 23.2 
 15.1 
 18.4 
 27.7 
 20.2 
 13.7 
 15.8 
 11.2 
 15.2 
 
 C1 cash cost 
 c/lb 
 215.7 
 239.6 
 231.2 
 244.4 
 179.7 
 180.0 
 169.6 
 182.3 
 207.1 
 210.8 
 160.2 
 161.6 
 126.9 
 
 Def Stripping 
 c/lb 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C1 
 c/lb 
 215.7 
 239.6 
 231.2 
 244.4 
 179.7 
 180.0 
 169.6 
 182.3 
 207.1 
 210.8 
 160.2 
 161.6 
 126.9 
 
 Depreciation 
 c/lb 
 57 
 48 
 30 
 70 
 45 
 35 
 29 
 27 
 10 
 13 
 15 
 16 
 29 
 
 
 Stripping Amortization 
 c/lb 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C2 
 
 272.3 
 287.9 
 261.4 
 314.2 
 225.1 
 215.1 
 199.0 
 208.9 
 217.0 
 224.1 
 175.2 
 177.8 
 155.5

Net Present Value 
A sensitivity analysis for the NPV was performed using
variations in OPEX, CAPEX, discount rate, and copper prices. Simulations were
conducted treating the variables independently. Ten percent increments were
adopted for a total variation of ± 30%. The NPV is 185m USD at a discount rate
of 8.0%. 
The sensitivity analysis was performed disregarding the credits
obtained with silver to simulate the worst case, verifying if in this condition
the outcome is still a positive cash flow that supports the statement of Mineral
Reserves. 
Results of the sensitivity analysis suggest significant
exposure to variations in copper prices and OPEX. According to the analysis, a
decrease in the copper price of more than 11% or an increase in the OPEX of more
than 12% could result in a negative cash flow and, therefore, make the project
not feasible. 
159 

The impact of CAPEX variations is not significant compared to
variations in copper price and OPEX. 
Table 7 
NPV sensitivity analysis - MUSD 

 
 Parameter/Variation 
 -30% 
 -20% 
 -10% 
 0% 
 +10% 
 +20% 
 +30% 
 
 Copper Price 
 (405) 
 (184) 
 23 
 185 
 337 
 483 
 622 
 
 OPEX 
 236 
 219 
 202 
 185 
 169 
 152 
 135 
 
 CAPEX 
 665 
 505 
 345 
 185 
 26 
 (134) 
 (294) 
 
 Discount rate 
 231 
 215 
 200 
 185 
 172 
 160 
 148 
A study was also developed to quantify the sensitivity of the
NPV to variations in the silver price using similar methodology to the
sensitivity analysis presented above. 
The sensitivity analysis for the NPV was performed using
variations in OPEX, CAPEX, discount rate, copper and silver prices. Simulations
were conducted treating the variables independently. Ten percent increments were
adopted for a total variation of ± 30%. Considering the silver scenario, the NPV
is 277M USD at a discount rate of 8.0%. The silver content increased the NPV by
33%. 
Results of the sensitivity analysis suggest significant
sensitivity to variation in copper prices and OPEX. According to the analysis, a
decrease in the copper price of more than 17% or an increase in the OPEX of more
than 17% could result in a negative cash flow and, therefore, make the project
not feasible. 
The impact of CAPEX and silver price variations is not
significant compared to variations in copper price and OPEX.
Table 8 
NPV sensitivity analysis - MUSD - including silver content

 
 Parameter/Variation 
 -30% 
 -20% 
 -10% 
 0% 
 +10% 
 +20% 
 +30% 
 
 Copper Price 
 (271) 
 (55) 
 122 
 277 
 426 
 568 
 703 
 
 Silver Price 
 245 
 256 
 267 
 277 
 289 
 298 
 308 
 
 OPEX 
 756 
 597 
 437 
 277 
 117 
 (43) 
 (203) 
 
 CAPEX 
 328 
 311 
 294 
 277 
 260 
 243 
 226 
 
 Discount rate 
 334 
 314 
 295 
 277 
 260 
 245 
 230 
160 

 
 

 
 
 
161