EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
 
 Note to Reader: English translation of the original
 agreement. This translated version has been produced for disclosure
 purposes only and the parties to this agreement have not executed this
 agreement drafted in English. The parties have executed, on July 31, 2017,
 a French version of the agreement, it being understood that the parties
 are bound only by such French version. 

 
 
 
 CDP INVESTISSEMENTS INC. 
 
 
 
 and 
 
 
 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INVESTOR’S RIGHTS AGREEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
July 31, 2017

INVESTOR’S RIGHTS AGREEMENT 
ENTERED INTO on JULY 31, 2017

 
 BETWEEN: 
 OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD, a
 business corporation governed by the Business Corporations Act
 (Québec); 
 
 
 
 
 
 (“Osisko”) 
 
 
 
 
 AND: 
 CDP INVESTISSEMENTS INC., a business
 corporation governed by the Business Corporations Act (Québec);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (“CDP”) 
WHEREAS Osisko and CDP have entered into a Subscription
Agreement dated June 4, 2017 (the “Subscription Agreement”);
WHEREAS, following the closing of the subscription
contemplated in the Subscription Agreement, CDP along with the Caisse Affiliates
(as defined hereinafter) hold approximately 12.1% of the Common Shares (as
defined hereinafter); 
WHEREAS CDP and Osisko wish to establish between
themselves certain terms pertaining to the shareholder status of the Caisse
within Osisko; 
THEREFORE the Parties agree as follows:
SECTION 1INTERPRETATION

 
 1.1 
 
 Definitions
As used in this agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires: 
“Agreement” means this
Investor’s Rights Agreement; 
“BCA” means the Business
Corporations Act (Québec); 
“Board” means Osisko’s board of
directors; 
“Business Day” means a day which
is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a holiday in the Province of Québec; 
“Caisse Affiliates” has the
meaning ascribed to the term “affiliates” in the Québec Securities
Act;
“CDP” has the meaning ascribed
thereto in the preamble;
1 

“CDP Candidate” has the meaning
ascribed thereto in paragraph 2.1; 
“Common Shares” means the common
shares of Osisko’s share capital; 
“Osisko” has the meaning
ascribed thereto in the preamble;
“Parties” means the parties to
this Agreement and “Party” means one of them; and 
“Regulation 52-110” means
Regulation 52-110 Respecting Audit Committees.
“Stock Exchange” means the
Toronto Stock Exchange;

 
 1.2 
 
 Sections, Paragraphs and
Titles
The division of this Agreement into
sections and paragraphs and the insertion of titles is merely intended to
facilitate the reading hereof and shall have no effect on the interpretation of
this Agreement. The terms “hereof”, “hereunder”, “herein”
and similar expressions refer to this Agreement and not to any particular
section, paragraph or other part hereof. References herein to sections and
paragraphs are references to sections and paragraphs of this Agreement, except
where specifically indicated otherwise.

 
 1.3 
 
 Gender and Number
In this Agreement, the singular shall
include the plural and vice versa, and the masculine gender shall include the
feminine gender. The expression “including” shall be read as meaning
“including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing”.

 
 1.4 
 
 Computation of Time
Periods

 
 
 1.4.1 
 
 Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.4.2 
 
 Except where otherwise indicated herein, a time period
 allotted to perform an act shall be computed by excluding the day on which
 the time period starts and by including the day on which the time period
 ends. If the last day of the time period allotted is not a Business Day,
 then the time period shall be extended to the next Business Day following
 the day on which the time period would otherwise have ended.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.4.3 
 
 If, under this Agreement, a measure must be taken on a
 day which is not a Business Day, then such measure shall be taken on the
 first Business Day following said day.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.4.4 
 
 All references to times in a day shall mean times in
 Montreal, Québec.
2 

SECTION 2REPRESENTATION ON THE BOARD

 
 2.1 
 
 Appointment Following Signature of Subscription
 Agreement
Immediately after the closing of the
subscription under the Subscription Agreement, CDP shall have the right, in
accordance with the terms of and subject to the conditions set forth in this
Section 2, to appoint a director to the Board (the “CDP Candidate”),
provided the following conditions are met:

 
 
 2.1.1 
 
 The CDP Candidate shall be authorized by the BCA, the
 rules of the Stock Exchange and Osisko’s current articles to act as a
 director of Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.1.2 
 
 Osisko’s Governance and Nomination Committee, acting
 reasonably and taking into account the profile and expertise desirable for
 an independent director (within the meaning ascribed to such term in
 Regulation 52-110) of Osisko, shall favourably recommend the CDP
 Candidate’s designation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.1.3 
 
 The CDP Candidate may be one of Osisko’s current
 independent directors; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.1.4 
 
 Upon joining the Board, the CDP Candidate shall sign an
 agreement under which the CDP Candidate shall undertake to tender his or
 her resignation to the Board should the Caisse Affiliates cease to
 beneficially own, or exercise control or direction over, 10% or more of
 the outstanding Common Shares.

 
 2.2 
 
 Recommendation of a Candidate and
 Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thereafter, for the term of this Agreement, CDP shall
 have the right, in accordance with the terms of and subject to the
 conditions set forth in this Section 2, to recommend to Osisko a candidate
 to be entered on the list of candidates proposed by Osisko to be elected
 as directors, which list is to be included in a management proxy circular
 pertaining to the election of Osisko’s directors, provided that the
 conditions of paragraph 2.1 are met.
 
 
 
 
 2.3 
 
 Notices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Osisko shall notify CDP of its intention to hold an
 annual shareholders meeting at least 45 days prior to the mailing of its
 management proxy circular in connection with such meeting. CDP may notify
 Osisko of its recommendation for the CDP Candidate in accordance with
 paragraph 2.1 at any time, but at least 15 days prior to the mailing of
 the management proxy circular.
 
 
 
 
 2.4 
 
 Recommendation of a New Candidate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Subject to the conditions set forth in this Section 2,
 prior to the first annual shareholders meeting following the date of this
 Agreement, or if the natural person recommended as CDP Candidate ceases to
 be a director of Osisko or if the position of CDP Candidate otherwise
 becomes vacant, CDP shall have the right to recommend another
 natural person as CDP Candidate, whom Osisko shall immediately appoint
to the Board and whose term shall end at the close of the following annual
shareholders meeting.
3 

SECTION 3TERMINATION

 
 3.1 
 
 Causes and Consequences of
 Termination
This Agreement shall cease to be
effective and be terminated:

 
 
 3.1.1 
 
 Should the Parties enter into a written agreement to such
 effect;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.1.2 
 
 In the event of the insolvency, bankruptcy or
 receivership of Osisko or the issuance of a certificate of dissolution or
 other similar provisions enacted in replacement of same; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.1.3 
 
 Should the Caisse Affiliates cease to beneficially own,
 or exercise control or direction over, 10% or more of the outstanding
 Common Shares.
SECTION 4PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHT 

 
 4.1 
 
 Pre-Emptive Right

 
 
 4.1.1 
 
 As long as the Caisse Affiliates hold 10% or more of the
 outstanding Common Shares, CDP shall have a pre-emptive right (the
 “Pre-Emptive Right”) entitling it to subscribe, or entitling a
 Caisse Affiliate to subscribe, in connection with any issuance of Common
 Shares, equity securities of Osisko, or securities which are
 convertible, exercisable or exchangeable against Common shares or equity
 securities of Osisko (collectively, the “Securities”),
 upon conditions which shall be no less favourable than those afforded
 other subscribers of such issued Securities, up to a maximum of its
 interest in the issued Securities. This interest shall be computed based
 on: 1) the overall equity position of the Caisse Affiliates in the Common
 Shares or other securities which are convertible, exercisable or
 exchangeable against outstanding Common shares immediately prior to such
 issuance or distribution and 2) the total number of Common Shares or other
 securities which are convertible, exercisable or exchangeable against
 outstanding Common shares immediately prior to the issuance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.1.2 
 
 In connection with CDP’s exercise of the Pre-Emptive
 Right, Osisko shall deliver to CDP a written notice containing
 the proposed terms and conditions of the issued Securities. Osisko shall
 notify CDP in writing of its intention to issue Securities (the “Notice
 of Issuance”) as soon as practicable, and CDP shall indicate to
 Osisko, no later than three (3) Business Days following receipt of the
 Notice of Issuance, whether or not it wishes to participate in the
 proposed issuance by exercising the Pre-Emptive Right and, as the case may
 be, the extent of such participation.
4 

 
 
 4.1.3 
 
 Notwithstanding paragraph 4.1.2, throughout the entire
 duration of the Pre- Emptive Right, Osisko shall also immediately
 forward to CDP any proposal that Osisko receives from a third
 party (including from investment dealers in connection with a proposed
 investment of Securities being distributed) and the acceptance of which
 the management of Osisko is seriously considering recommending.
 If Osisko receives an unsolicited bought deal proposal from an
 investment dealer with respect to an investment of Securities being
 distributed, to which Osisko is required to reply within 24 hours
 and which Osisko has the intention of accepting, Osisko
 shall provide CDP with a copy of the bought deal proposal at the same time
 it notifies the members of the Board thereof. In such an event, CDP shall,
 prior to the half-hour preceding the time the bought deal proposal is to
 be accepted or rejected by Osisko, indicate to Osisko
 whether or not it wishes to participate in the bought deal proposal and,
 as the case may be, the extent of such participation, in the manner
 indicated hereabove.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.1.4 
 
 The subscription under which CDP shall have exercised the
 Pre-Emptive Right shall take place in connection with the distribution for
 which the Pre-Emptive Right was exercised, subject to the necessary
 authorizations to effect the closing of the issuance under which CDP shall
 have exercised the Pre-Emptive Right.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.1.5 
 
 The Pre-Emptive Right shall not apply in connection with
 any issuance of Securities by Osisko:

 
 
 (i) 
 
 Under a rights offering by Osisko that is open
 to all shareholders of Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 At the time of the exercise or conversion of convertible
 or exchangeable securities existing as at the date hereof;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 By way of compensation under the compensation mechanisms
 adopted by Osisko in accordance with the rules of the Stock
 Exchange;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 Further to a grouping or splitting of Securities of
 Osisko, or special distributions, payments of stock dividends or
 payments in kind to all shareholders of Osisko or similar
 transactions; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (v) 
 
 In connection with a merger, a business combination, an
 exchange offer, a take-over bid, an arrangement, an asset purchase
 transaction or any other type of acquisition of assets or shares held by a
 third party that is approved by the board of directors of Osisko
 or under the terms thereof.
Moreover, the number of Securities
being distributed that CDP may acquire in connection with the exercise of the
Pre-Emptive Right shall be limited to that number that does not require the
approval of the shareholders of Osisko under the rules of the Stock
Exchange or applicable securities laws; however, if Osisko wishes to
submit the investment of the Securities being distributed or a simultaneous
transaction to a vote by its shareholders, Osisko shall also be
required to seek the approval of its shareholders with respect to the exercise by CDP of the
Pre-Emptive Right, it being understood however (i) that Osisko shall
have the right to propose the approval of the issuance of the Securities being
distributed in favour of CDP or a Caisse Affiliate, as the case may be, in a
resolution separate from any other special resolution that Osisko may
wish to submit to the approval of its shareholders at a shareholders meeting and
(ii) that if Osisko’s shareholders vote against the issuance of the
Securities being distributed in favour of CDP or a Caisse Affiliate, as the case
may be, Osisko shall not be required to issue in favour of CDP or a
Caisse Affiliate, as the case may be, and CDP or a Caisse Affiliate, as the case
may be, shall not be entitled to receive, such Securities being distributed.
5 

 
 
 4.1.6 
 
 If CDP fails to reply within the time periods mentioned
 in this section, CDP shall be deemed to have chosen not to exercise its
 Pre-Emptive Right with respect to said issuance only.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.1.7 
 
 The Pre-Emptive Right set out in this section and any
 exercise of same shall remain subject to the approvals that the Stock
 Exchange may require and that Osisko undertakes to secure by
 making commercially reasonable efforts.
SECTION 5REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE
PARTIES

 
 5.1 
 
 CDP Represents and Warrants the Following to
 Osisko:

 
 
 5.1.1 
 
 CDP has full legal capacity, power and authority to sign
 and deliver this Agreement as well as to fulfill the corresponding
 obligations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.1.2 
 
 This Agreement has been duly signed and delivered by CDP
 and (provided it has been duly authorized, signed and delivered by Osisko)
 constitutes a legal and valid obligation that binds the subscriber and is
 enforceable against same in accordance with the conditions
 herein.

 
 5.2 
 
 Osisko Represents and Warrants the Following to
 CDP:

 
 
 5.2.1 
 
 Osisko has full legal capacity, power and authority to
 sign and deliver this Agreement as well as to fulfill the corresponding
 obligations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.2.2 
 
 This Agreement has been duly signed and delivered by
 Osisko and (provided it has been duly authorized, signed and delivered by
 CDP) constitutes a legal and valid obligation that binds Osisko and is
 enforceable against same in accordance with the conditions
 herein.
6 

SECTION 6GENERAL

 
 6.1 
 
 Further Assurances
Each of the Parties agrees to sign and
deliver from time to time any other documents and instruments, and to take any
measures, that any Party may, before or after the date hereof, reasonably
require in order to make this Agreement effective or better evidence or perfect
the meaning and intent of this Agreement.

 
 6.2 
 
 Successors and Assigns
This Agreement shall enure to the
benefit of and be binding upon the respective successors and assigns of the
Parties.

 
 6.3 
 
 Entire Agreement
This Agreement constitutes a faithful
and complete description of the agreement entered into between the Parties
concerning the subject matter hereof, and cancels and supersedes any other prior
arrangement or understanding entered into between the Parties concerning such
subject matter. There are between the Parties no representations, warranties,
terms, conditions, understandings or agreements, whether ancillary, explicit,
implicit or supplementary, except for that which is specifically set forth in
this Agreement.

 
 6.4 
 
 Amendments and Waivers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No amendment to this Agreement shall be valid or
 enforceable unless set out in writing and duly signed by the Parties. The
 fact that a Party has not insisted on the full performance of any
 obligation contained herein or has not exercised any of the rights
 provided herein shall not be considered an agreement to waive such right
 or full performance of such obligation in the future. A Party may, at its
 sole discretion, waive, in whole or in part, the rights granted to it
 hereunder. Such waiver must be set out in writing, and may or may not be
 conditional, revocable or irrevocable, depending on its nature. A waiver
 shall only apply to the rights and circumstances specifically set out in
 such waiver.
 
 
 
 
 6.5 
 
 Assignment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Subject to any contrary provisions herein, a Party may
 not assign this Agreement, nor the rights, duties and obligations
 resulting herefrom without the prior written consent of the other
 Party.
 
 
 
 
 6.6 
 
 Notices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Notices and other communications required to be delivered
 hereunder shall be sent in writing to the following addresses (or to any
 other address that a Party may indicate by way of written notice to the
 other Parties):
7 

 
 
 a) 
 
 To the Caisse, at the following address:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CDP Investissements Inc. 1000 Place Jean-Paul
 Riopelle Montreal, Québec, H2Z 2B3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Attention: Pierre Lambert E-mail:
 plambert@cdpq.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With an additional copy to Sophie Lussier E-mail:
 slussier@cdpq.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 b) 
 
 To Osisko, at the following address:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1100 Canadiens-de-Montréal Avenue, Suite 300
 Montreal, Québec, H3B 2S2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Attention: Bryan A. Coates, President E-mail:
 bcoates@osiskogr.com
Each communication shall be personally
delivered or sent by e-mail to the addressee. A communication that is personally
delivered shall, if delivered before 4:30 p.m. on a Business Day, be deemed to
have been given and received on that day, or shall, in all other cases, be
deemed to have been given and received on the first Business Day following the
day on which it is delivered. A communication sent by e-mail shall, if sent
before 4:30 p.m. on a Business Day, be deemed to have been given and received on
that day, or shall, in all other cases, be deemed to have been given and
received on the first Business Day following the day on which it is sent.

 
 6.7 
 
 Applicable Law and Forum
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This Agreement shall be governed and interpreted in
 accordance with the laws of the Province of Québec and the federal laws of
 Canada applicable therein (excluding rules or principles, whether foreign
 or national, pertaining to conflicts of laws, the interpretation of which
 could be subject to the laws of another jurisdiction). The Parties hereby
 irrevocably and unconditionally attorn to the exclusive jurisdiction of
 the courts of the Province of Québec and elect domicile in the City of
 Montreal in connection with any litigation pertaining to the signature or
 interpretation of this Agreement and to the exercise of any right or
 enforcement of any obligation resulting herefrom (excluding rules or
 principles, whether foreign or national, pertaining to conflicts of forum
 over which a court of another territory could claim
 jurisdiction).
 
 
 
 
 6.8 
 
 Invalidity of Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If a term or any other provision of this Agreement is
 invalid, illegal or unenforceable by reason of an applicable law, all
 other conditions and provisions of this Agreement
shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect provided that the
economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated herein is not
impacted in such a manner as to represent a material adverse effect for a Party.
After a decision has been rendered to the effect that a term or other provision
is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith
to amend this Agreement so as to give effect to the Parties’ original intention
as faithfully as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions
contemplated herein be completed to the fullest extent possible.
8 

 
 6.9 
 
 Counterparts; Autographically Reproduced
 Signatures
This Agreement may be signed in one or
more counterparts, each of which shall be conclusively deemed to constitute an
original, and all of which together shall be deemed to constitute one and the
same agreement. Any facsimile or electronic transmission of the Agreement
bearing a Party’s signature is legal and shall be binding upon said Party.
(The rest of this page is intentionally left blank.)
9 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is signed on the date
first mentioned above. 
OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES LTD

 
 Per: 
 (s) Bryan A. Coates 
 
 
 
 Name: Bryan A. Coates 
 
 
 
 Title: President 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Per: 
 (s) Elif Lévesque 
 
 
 
 Name: Elif Lévesque 
 
 
 
 Title: Chief Financial Officer
 and 
 
 
 
 Vice-President, Finance 
 
CDP INVESTISSEMENTS INC. 

 
 Per: 
 (s)
 Justin Méthot 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Per: 
 (s)
 Pierre Lambert