EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES ANNOUNCES SALE OF LABRADOR
IRON ORE ROYALTY CORPORATION HOLDINGS 
(Montreal, January 9, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(the “Company” or “Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to announce that it
has sold its 9.8% interest in Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation (“LIORC”)
for proceeds of $113.4 million. 
The investment was made in the first semester of 2015. Osisko
earned $10.7 million in non-taxable dividend income from its investment, and
generated a gain of $7.7 million on the disposal of the shares. 
Sean Roosen, Chair and Chief Executive Officer, noted: “We are
very pleased with the 17.4% 1 return we realized on our investment in
LIORC. The sale of our investment allows us to pursue growth opportunities in
the precious metals sector.” 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
Osisko Gold Royalties is an intermediate precious metal royalty
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine
(Canada) and a 2.0 -3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada). The Company
also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource companies, including a 13.6%
interest in Osisko Mining Inc., 14.2% in Falco Resources Ltd., and 17.4%
interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed "forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than
statements of historical fact, that address future events, developments or
performance that Osisko expects to occur including management’s expectations
regarding Osisko’s growth, results of operations, estimated future revenues,
requirements for additional capital, mineral reserve and mineral resource
estimates, production estimates, production costs and revenue, future demand for
and prices of commodities, business prospects and opportunities are forward
looking statements. In addition, statements (including data in tables) relating
to reserves and resources and gold equivalent ounces are forward looking
statements, as they involve implied assessment, based on certain estimates and
assumptions, and no assurance can be given that the estimates will be realized.
Forward looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and are
generally, but not always, identified by the words "expects", "plans",
"anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates", "projects", "potential",
"scheduled" and similar expressions or variations (Including negative
variations), or that events or conditions "will", "would", "may", "could" or
"should" occur including, without limitation, the performance of the assets of
Osisko. Although Osisko believes the expectations expressed in such
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and are not
guarantees of future performance and actual results may accordingly differ
materially from those in forward looking statements. Factors that could cause
the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements
include, without limitation: fluctuations in the prices of the commodities that
drive royalties held by Osisko (gold and silver); fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar
relative to the U.S. dollar; regulatory changes in national and local
government, including permitting and licensing regimes and taxation policies;
regulations and political or economic developments in any of the countries where
properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest are located or
through which they are held; risks related to the operators of the properties in
which Osisko holds a royalty, influence of macroeconomic developments; business
opportunities that become available to, or are pursued by Osisko; continued
availability of capital and financing and general economic, market or business
conditions; litigation; title, permit or license disputes related to interests
on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest;
development, permitting, infrastructure, operating or technical difficulties on
any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest; rate
and timing of production differences from resource estimates or production
forecasts by operators of properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other
interest ; risks and hazards associated with the business of exploring,
development and mining on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty
or other interest, including, but not limited to unusual or unexpected
geological and metallurgical conditions, slope failures or cave-ins, flooding
and other natural disasters or civil unrest or other uninsured risks. The
forward looking statements contained in this press release are based upon
assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including, without limitation:
the ongoing operation of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other
interest by the owners or operators of such properties in a manner consistent
with past practice; the accuracy of public statements and disclosures made by
the owners or operators of such underlying properties; no material adverse
change in the market price of the commodities that underlie the asset portfolio;
no adverse development in respect of any significant property in which Osisko
holds a royalty, stream or other interest; the accuracy of publicly disclosed
expectations for the development of underlying properties that are not yet in
production; and the absence of any other factors that could cause actions,
events or results to differ from those anticipated, estimated or intended.
______________________________________1 Total
return on investment is a non-IFRS financial performance measure, which has no
standard definition under IFRS. Total return calculation is the sum of the
capital gains and dividends divided by the cost of the investment and represents
the return earned through the life of the investment. 
1 

For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko's issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking
information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations as at the date of
this press release and is subject to change after such date. Osisko disclaims
any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than
as required by law. 
For further information please contact, please contact
Osisko Gold Royalties:

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com

2