EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO COMPLETES ACQUISITION OF ORION ROYALTY PORTFOLIO

(Montréal, July 31, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (OR:
TSX & NYSE) (“Osisko” or “Corporation”) is pleased to announce the
successful completion of the previously announced acquisition (“Acquisition”) of
a high-quality precious metals portfolio of assets consisting of 74 royalties,
streams and precious metal offtakes (“Orion Portfolio”) from Orion Mine Finance
Group in exchange for $675 million cash and the issuance of 30,906,594 shares of
the Corporation. 
Following the acquisition, Osisko now holds a total of 131
royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes, including its cornerstone 5% net
smelter return (“NSR”) royalty on the world class and long-life Canadian
Malartic gold mine (Canada’s largest producing gold mine) and a 2% to 3.5% NSR
royalty on the world class Éléonore gold mine. In addition, the Corporation
acquired a 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard diamond mine and a 4% gold and
silver stream on the Brucejack gold and silver mine, all of which are new
high-quality mines in Canada, in addition to a 100% silver stream on the Mantos
Blancos copper mine in Chile. 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer, commented on the closing of the transaction: “We are excited
to acquire Orion’s portfolio of high quality assets, which position Osisko as
the leading growth royalty company in the precious metals sector”. 
Funding for Transaction 
In addition to the shares issued to Orion, the Corporation
completed a private placement totaling $275 million dollars with the Caisse de
dépôt et placement du Québec (“La Caisse”) ($200 million) and the Fonds de
solidarité FTQ (“the Fonds”) ($75 million) at a price of $14.56 per share. The
Corporation has also issued 385,457 shares as part of the capital commitment
fee.
The Corporation has also drawn US$118 million under its
acquisition credit line from National Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal.
The remaining cash component was drawn from the Corporation’s
cash resources. It is estimated that Osisko has approximately $100 million in
its treasury following the completion of the transaction. 
Share Ownership
“We are pleased to welcome Orion Mine Finance as a new 19.7%
shareholder, and we appreciate the confidence received from two Québec based
long term shareholders, La Caisse and the Fonds, that are increasing their
position to 12.1% and 5.5% respectively” commented Mr. Roosen. 
Following the completion of the transaction, Osisko has
156,964,269 shares outstanding. 
1 

Board Appointment 
In accordance with the acquisition agreement, Mr. Oskar
Lewnowski, Founder and Chief Investment Officer of Orion Mine Finance has been
appointed to Osisko’s Board of Directors. Mr. Lewnowski is a highly experienced
mining financier with previous experience with private equity funds and
investment banking firms. 
La Caisse has also the right to nominate a member to the Board
of Directors. It is anticipated that they will exercise this right during the
third quarter. 
Advisors 
Mr. Sean Roosen also noted: “We would like to acknowledge the
outstanding efforts of the Osisko and Orion Teams and their respective advisors
to complete this major transaction”. 
Osisko’s lead financial advisor is Maxit Capital LP, with BMO
Capital Markets, National Bank Financial and PricewaterhouseCoopers acting as
financial advisors. Legal counsel are Bennett Jones LLP and Lavery de Billy LLP
in Canada, and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP in the United
States. 
Orion’s financial advisors are CIBC World Markets Inc. and
Haywood Securities Inc. and their legal counsel is Fasken Martineau DuMoulin
LLP. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Following the Acquisition of the Orion Portfolio, it now holds a North American
focused portfolio over 130 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes.
Osisko’s portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone assets, including a 5% NSR
royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine, which is the largest gold mine in Canada.
Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource companies, including a
15.3% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., 14.7% in Osisko Metals Ltd., 13.3% in
Falco Resources Ltd. and 33.4% in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. For more
information, visit www.osiskogr.com. 

 
 
 
 For further information, please contact Osisko Gold
 Royalties Ltd: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
2 

Forward-looking statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable Canadian
and U.S. securities laws. These forward-looking statements, by their nature,
require Osisko to make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and
unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These
forward-looking statements, may involve, but are not limited to, comments with
respect to the directors and officers of Osisko, the performance of the assets
of Osisko, the realization of the anticipated benefits deriving from Osisko’s
acquisition of the Orion Portfolio. Words such as "may", "will", "would",
"could", "expect", "believe", "plan", "anticipate", "intend", "estimate",
"continue", or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as terms usually
used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Information contained in forward-looking statements is based upon
certain material assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making
a forecast or projection, including management's perceptions of historical
trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other
considerations that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. Osisko
considers its assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently
available, but cautions the reader that their assumptions regarding future
events, many of which are beyond the control of Osisko, may ultimately prove to
be incorrect since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect
Osisko and its business.
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
The forward-looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations
as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
3