EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO RECEIVES NOTICE OF ELECTION OF BRUCEJACK STREAM
REPURCHASE FROM PRETIUM 
(Montr´al, September 24, 2018) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(“Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) announces today that Osisko Bermuda Limited
(“OBL”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Osisko, has received a notice from Pretium
Exploration Inc., a subsidiary of Pretium Resources Inc. (collectively
“Pretium”) in regards to its election to exercise its option to fully repurchase
OBL’s interest in the Brucejack gold and silver stream, as provided for in the
purchase and sale agreement between the parties dated September 15, 2015 (the
“Stream Agreement”). 
Under the Stream Agreement, Pretium had an option to repurchase
100% of OBL’s share of the Brucejack gold and silver stream by making a payment
of US$118,500,000 (approximately C$154,000,000) to OBL on December 31, 2018. In
order to exercise this option, Pretium had to provide 90 days’ prior written
notice to OBL, at which point the stream repurchase becomes a binding obligation
on behalf of Pretium (“Stream Repurchase”). 
Osisko expects to use the proceeds from the Stream Repurchase
for debt repayment and to fund additional investments. 
The Stream Repurchase does not affect Osisko’s 2018 gold
equivalent ounce production guidance of 77,500 to 82,500 gold equivalent ounces.
Osisko continues to retain exposure to the Brucejack mine through its 50% gold
offtake interest. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams
and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone
assets, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine, which is the
largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held
resource companies, including a 17.2% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., a 12.6%
interest in Falco Resources Ltd. and a 34.7% interest in Barkerville Gold Mines
Ltd.
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de
Montr´al, Suite 300, Montr´al, Qu´bec, H3B 2S2 
For further information, please contact Osisko Gold
Royalties: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com

1 

Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward–looking statements” within the meaning of
applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. These
forward–looking statements, by their nature, require Osisko to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward–looking statements.
Forward–looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
These forward–looking statements, may involve, but are not limited
to the closing of the Stream Repurchase and the use of proceeds of the Stream
Repurchase. Words such as “may”, “will”, “would”, “could”, “expect”, “believe”,
“plan”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”, “continue”, or the negative or
comparable terminology, as well as terms usually used in the future and the
conditional, are intended to identify forward–looking statements.
Information contained in forward–looking statements is based upon
certain material assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making
a forecast or projection, including management’s perceptions of historical
trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other
considerations that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. Osisko
considers its assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently
available, but cautions the reader that their assumptions regarding future
events, many of which are beyond the control of Osisko, may ultimately prove to
be incorrect since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect
Osisko and its business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward–looking statements
made in this press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most
recent Annual Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian
securities commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer
profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on EDGAR
at www.sec.gov. The forward– looking information set forth herein
reflects Osisko’s expectations as at the date of this press release and is
subject to change after such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation
to update or revise any forward–looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 
2