EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO SHAREHOLDERS OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVE ORION TRANSACTION

(Montréal, July 31, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (the
“Corporation” or “Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to announce that its
shareholders have overwhelmingly approved at 99.6% the issuance of shares
required to complete the acquisition of the Orion portfolio consisting of 74
royalties, streams, and precious metal offtakes at the Special Meeting of
Shareholders held today in Montréal. Approximately 76.8% of the shares
outstanding at the record date of June 19, 2017, were represented in person or
by proxy at the meeting. 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer, commenting on the results of the Meeting of Shareholders: “We
are extremely grateful for the strong support for our transformational
transaction with Orion which, we believe, will deliver great returns for our
shareholders”. 
The resolution approved by disinterested shareholders
authorizes the Corporation to issue a total of 50,179,414 shares, including
30,906,594 shares to Orion Mine Finance as part of the consideration for the
acquisition, and 19,272,820 shares as part of private placement to the Caisse de
dépôt et placement du Québec and the Fonds de solidarité FTQ at a price of
$14.56 to partially fund the cash consideration of the acquisition. 
The transaction is expected to close later today. 
About Osisko 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Prior to the Transaction announced on June 5, 2017, it held over 50 royalties
and one stream, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine
(Canada), a 2.0% to 3.5% sliding scale NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada)
and a silver stream on the Gibraltar mine (Canada). Osisko also owns a portfolio
of publicly held resource companies, including a 15.3% interest in Osisko Mining
Inc., 14.7% in Osisko Metals Ltd., 13.3% in Falco Resources Ltd. and 33.4% in
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. For more
information, visit osiskogr.com. 
1 

 
 
 
 For further information please contact, Osisko
 Gold Royalties: 
 
 
 
 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com

Forward-looking statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable Canadian
and U.S. securities laws. These forward-looking statements, by their nature,
require Osisko to make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and
unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These
forward-looking statements, may involve, but are not limited to, comments with
respect to the directors and officers of Osisko, the performance of the assets
of Osisko, the realization of the anticipated benefits deriving from Osisko’s
acquisition of the Orion Portfolio. Words such as "may", "will", "would",
"could", "expect", "believe", "plan", "anticipate", "intend", "estimate",
"continue", or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as terms usually
used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Information contained in forward-looking statements is based upon
certain material assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making
a forecast or projection, including management's perceptions of historical
trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other
considerations that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. Osisko
considers its assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently
available, but cautions the reader that their assumptions regarding future
events, many of which are beyond the control of Osisko, may ultimately prove to
be incorrect since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect
Osisko and its business.
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
The forward-looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations
as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
2