EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
EARLY WARNING NEWS RELEASE 
(Montréal, May 30, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (TSX
& NYSE:OR) ("Osisko") announces that it has subscribed for and received from
Minera Alamos Inc. (TSXV:MAI) ("Minera Alamos") 22,045,000 common shares at a
price of $0.15 per share (the "Shares"), in connection with the closing by
Minera Alamos of a private placement transaction (the "Private Placement").
Immediately prior to the closing of the Private Placement,
Osisko did not have beneficial ownership of, or control and direction over, any
common shares of Minera Alamos. Immediately following the closing of the Private
Placement, Osisko owns beneficial ownership of, or control and direction over
22,045,000 common shares of Minera Alamos, representing approximately 19.9% of
Minera Alamos’ issued and outstanding common shares. Osisko does not own any
other securities of Minera Alamos. 
Osisko acquired the Shares described
in this press release for investment purposes and in accordance with applicable
securities laws, Osisko may, from time to time and at any time, acquire
additional shares and/or other equity, debt or other securities or instruments
(collectively, "Securities") of Minera Alamos in the open market or otherwise,
and reserves the right to dispose of any or all of its Securities in the open
market or otherwise at any time and from time to time, and to engage in similar
transactions with respect to the Securities, the whole depending on market
conditions, the business and prospects of Minera Alamos and other relevant
factors. 
A copy of the early warning report to be filed by Osisko in
connection with the Private Placement described above will be available on SEDAR
under Minera Alamos’ profile. This news release is issued under the early
warning provisions of the Canadian securities legislation. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko is an intermediate precious metal royalty and stream
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties and streams, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian
Malartic Mine (Canada), a 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada)
and a silver stream on the Gibraltar Mine (Canada). It maintains a strong
financial position and has distributed $35.1 million in dividends to its
shareholders during the past ten consecutive quarters. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
For further information please contact, please contact
Osisko: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com