EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO ANNOUNCES TSX APPROVAL FOR NORMAL COURSE ISSUER BID

(Montreal, October 17, 2016) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(OR:TSX) (OR:NYSE) ("Osisko" or the "Corporation") is pleased to announce that
the Toronto Stock Exchange (the "TSX") has approved the Corporation's notice of
intention to make a normal course issuer bid (the "NCIB Program"). Under the
terms of the NCIB Program, Osisko may acquire up to 5,330,217 of its common
shares ("Common Shares") from time to time in accordance with the normal course
issuer bid procedures of the TSX. Any repurchases under the NCIB Program will be
made in Canada through the facilities of the TSX. 
Repurchases under the NCIB Program may commence on October 24,
2016 and will terminate on October 23, 2017 or on such earlier date as the NCIB
Program is complete. Purchases of Common Shares under the NCIB Program will be
made in Canada through the facilities of the TSX in accordance with its rules.
Daily purchases will be limited to 116,783 Common Shares, other than block
purchase exemptions, representing 25% of the average daily trading volume of the
Common Shares on the TSX for the six month period ending September 30, 2016,
being 467,132 Common Shares. The price that the Corporation may pay for any
Common Shares purchased under the NCIB Program will be the prevailing market
price at the time of purchase and any Common Shares purchased by the Corporation
will be cancelled. 
The board of directors of Osisko believes that the underlying
value of the company may not be reflected in the market price of the Common
Shares from time to time and that, accordingly, the purchase of Common Shares
will increase the proportionate interest in the company of, and be advantageous
to, all remaining shareholders of the Corporation.
As of October 11, 2016, there were 106,604,347 Common Shares
issued and outstanding. The 5,330,217 Common Shares that may be repurchased
under the NCIB Program represent approximately 5% of the issued and outstanding
Common Shares as of October 11, 2016.
Osisko has appointed Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd. to
make any purchases under the NCIB Program on its behalf. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties is an intermediate precious metal royalty
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine
(Canada) and a 2.0 -3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada). It maintains
a strong financial position with cash resources of $425 million at June 30 2016
and has distributed dividends to its shareholders during the past seven
consecutive quarters. 
Osisko's head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
1 

Forward-Looking Statements 
This press release contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements, by their nature, require the Corporation to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Words such as "may",
"will", "would", "could", "expect", "believe", "plan", "anticipate", "intend",
"estimate", "continue", or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as
terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements including the fact that the Corporation "expects",
"plans", "anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates", "projects",
"potential", "scheduled" and similar expressions or variations (Including
negative variations), or that events or conditions "will", "would", "may",
"could" or "should" occur including, without limitation, statements about the
board of directors of Osisko's belief that the NCIB Program is advantageous to
shareholders and that underlying value of the Corporation may not be reflected
in the market price of the Common Shares and whether the Corporation will
purchase any common shares under the NCIB Program. Although Osisko believes
the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on
reasonable assumptions, such statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance and
actual results may accordingly differ materially from those in forward looking
statements. Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially
from those in forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
fluctuations in the prices of the commodities that drive royalties held by
Osisko (gold and silver); fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar
relative to the U.S. dollar; regulatory changes by national and local
government, including corporate law, permitting and licensing regimes and
taxation policies; continued availability of capital and financing and general
economic, market or business conditions; business opportunities that become
available to, or are pursued by Osisko; the impossibility to acquire royalties
and to fund precious metal streams; other uninsured risks. The forward looking
statements contained in this press release are based upon assumptions management
believes to be reasonable, including, without limitation: the ongoing operation
of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest by the
owners or operators of such properties in a manner consistent with past
practice; the accuracy of public statements and disclosures made by the owners
or operators of such underlying properties; no material adverse change in the
market price of the commodities that underlie the asset portfolio; no adverse
development in respect of any significant property in which Osisko holds a
royalty or other interest and the absence of any other factors that could cause
actions, events or results to differ from those anticipated, estimated or
intended. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, refer to the Corporation's most recent Annual information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR. The forward-looking information set forth herein
reflects the Corporation's expectations as at the date of this press release and
is subject to change after such date. The Corporation disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 

 
 
 
 For further information please contact Osisko Gold
 Royalties Ltd: 
 
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
2