EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES PROVIDES UPDATE ON INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO
FAIR VALUE $407.9 MILLION 
(Montréal, Québec, April 10, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties
Ltd (TSX & NYSE:OR) is pleased to provide an update on its investment
portfolio, which had an estimated fair value1 of approximately $407.9
million as at April 7, 2017. The acquired cash price of the portfolio is
approximately $233.2 million. 
Sean Roosen, Chair and Chief Executive Officer, commenting on
the portfolio noted: “As part of our value creation process, we have committed
capital and people to advance exploration and development projects. As part of
our investment in these projects, we have secured royalties, streams and rights
to participate in future financings. We believe that these projects will provide
a strong platform to generate future revenues”. 
The following outlines some of the developments in projects
held in certain investee corporations: 
Osisko Mining Inc. (TSX-OSK) 
Osisko Mining Inc. (“OSK”) is currently carrying out a 400,000
meter drilling program on its flagship Windfall project located approximately
100 km east of Lebel-sur-Quévillon, Québec. The property is located in the Plan
Nord region, a Québec Government initiative to develop northern Québec. The
Windfall exploration program continues to generate exciting drilling results.
OSK also owns the Marban deposit near the Canadian Malartic Mine and the
Garrison property in northern Ontario. 
Osisko Gold Royalties owns 27,372,709 common shares of OSK
(14.8%) with a fair value of approximately $153.0 million as at April 7, 2017,
exceeding its acquired cash price by approximately $102.0 million. Osisko Gold
Royalties also owns a 1.5% net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty on the Windfall
project and has the right to fund the project development and to participate in
future equity financings. 
Additional information on Osisko Mining Inc. can be obtained on
their corporate website www.osiskomining.com. 
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. (TSXV-BGM)

Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. (“BGM”) is focused on exploring and
developing an extensive land package in the historical Cariboo Mining District
of Central British Columbia. BGM is currently executing a 130,000 meter drilling
program and expects to mine 150,000 tonnes from the Bonanza Ledge deposit,
following the reception of the amended mining permits to allow for the
underground exploitation of up to 150,000 tonnes per year. 
Osisko Gold Royalties owns 116,372,506 common shares of BGM
(35.2%) with a fair value of approximately $85.0 million as at April 7, 2017,
exceeding its acquired cash price by approximately $36.3 million. Osisko Gold
Royalties also owns a 2.25% NSR royalty over BGM’s land package. 
________________________________________1 The
fair value corresponds to the quoted price of the investments in a recognized
stock exchange as at April 7, 2017. 
1 

Additional information on Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. can be
obtained on their corporate website www.barkervillegold.com. 
Falco Resources Ltd. (TSXV-FPC) 
Falco Resources Ltd. (“FPC”) is currently focused on the
preparation of the feasibility study for the Horne 5 deposit located in the
prolific Rouyn-Noranda mining area. The study is expected to be completed in
late second or early third quarter of 2017. The Horne Mine has produced
historically 11.6 million ounces of gold and 2.5 billion pounds of copper. FPC
has recently initiated a 40,000 meter drilling program on targets within the
Rouyn-Noranda mining area. The cost of the investment in drilling is estimated
at $10.0 million. 
Osisko Gold Royalties owns 20,826,605 common shares of FPC
(13.3%) . It has also provided a $10.0 million advance payment to FPC, which can
be applied to a silver stream or a 1% NSR royalty following the completion of
the feasibility study. The fair value of its equity holding in FPC is
approximately $21.5 million, exceeding its acquired cash price by approximately
$10.0 million. 
Additional information on Falco Resources Ltd. can be obtained
on their corporate website www.falcores.com. 
Arizona Mining Inc. (TSX-AZ) 
Arizona Mining Inc. (“AZ”) reported on April 3, 2017 (AZ’s
press release dated April 3, 2017 is available on www.sedar.com), the
highlights of a preliminary economic study and a mineral resource updated for
its Taylor zinc-lead-silver sulfide deposit located on their 100%-owned Hermosa
project in Arizona, USA. 
Osisko Gold Royalties owns 4.3% of the common shares
outstanding of
AZ with a fair value of approximately $23.7 million, exceeding its acquired cash
price by approximately $14.0 million. Osisko also owns a 1% NSR royalty which
was acquired in April 2016 for $10 million. 
Additional information on Arizona Mining Inc. can be obtained
on their corporate website www.arizonamining.com. 
Osisko Gold Royalties invests from time to time in resource
companies. It may increase or reduce its portfolio from time to time. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko is an intermediate precious metal royalty and stream
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties and streams, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian
Malartic Mine (Canada), a 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada)
and a silver stream on the Gibraltar Mine (Canada). It maintains a strong
financial position and has distributed $30.8 million in dividends to its
shareholders during the past nine consecutive quarters. Osisko also owns a
portfolio of publicly held resource companies, including a 14.8% interest in
Osisko Mining Inc., 13.3% in Falco Resources Ltd., and 35.2% interest in
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
2 

Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward looking information” and “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of applicable Canadian Securities Laws and the United States Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (collectively, the
“forward-looking statements”). All statements in this press
release, other than statements of historical fact, that address future events,
developments or performance that Osisko expects to occur including management’s
expectations regarding Osisko’s growth, results of operations, estimated future
revenues, requirements for additional capital, mineral reserve and mineral
resource estimates, production estimates, production costs and revenue, future
demand for and prices of commodities, business prospects and opportunities are
forward-looking statements. In addition, statements (including data in tables)
relating to mineral reserves and mineral resources and gold equivalent ounces
are forward-looking statements, as they involve implied assessment, based on
certain estimates and assumptions, and no assurance can be given that the
estimates will be realized. Forward-looking statements are statements that are
not historical facts and are generally, but not always, identified by the words
“expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “intends”, “estimates”,
“projects”, “potential”, “scheduled” and similar expressions or variations
(including negative variations), or that events or conditions “will”, “would”,
“may”, “could” or “should” occur including, without limitation, the performance
of the assets of Osisko, and the growth of and the benefits deriving from its
portfolio of investments. Although Osisko believes the expectations expressed in
such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and
are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may accordingly
differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Factors that could
cause the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking
statements include, without limitation: fluctuations in the prices of the
commodities that drive royalties or other interests held by Osisko; fluctuations
in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar; regulatory
changes in national and local government, including permitting and licensing
regimes and taxation policies; regulations and political or economic
developments in any of the countries where properties in which Osisko holds a
royalty or other interest are located or through which they are held; risks
related to the operators of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or
other interest; influence of macroeconomic developments; business opportunities
that become available to, or are pursued by Osisko; continued availability of
capital and financing and general economic, market or business conditions;
litigation; title, permit or license disputes related to interests on any of the
properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest; development,
permitting, infrastructure, operating or technical difficulties on any of the
properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest; rate and timing of
production differences from resource estimates or production forecasts by
operators of properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest; risks
and hazards associated with the business of exploring, development and mining on
any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest,
including, but not limited to unusual or unexpected geological and metallurgical
conditions, slope failures or cave-ins, flooding and other natural disasters or
civil unrest or other uninsured risks. The forward-looking statements contained
in this press release are based upon assumptions management believes to be
reasonable, including, without limitation: the ongoing operation by the
operators of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest by
the operators of such properties in a manner consistent with past practice; the
accuracy of public statements and disclosures made by the operators of such
underlying properties; the absence of material adverse change in the market
price of the commodities that underlie the asset portfolio; no adverse
development in respect of any significant property in which Osisko holds a
royalty or other interest; the accuracy of publicly disclosed expectations for
the development of underlying properties that are not yet in production; and the
absence of any other factors that could cause actions, events or results to
differ from those anticipated, estimated or intended. Certain of the information
conta ined in this press release relating to the investee corporations is based
on and derived from publicly available information of the investee corporations.
The forward-looking statements issued from these investee corporations
reproduced in this press release are subject to change after the date of this
press release. Osisko has relied upon this information without having made
independent inquiries as to the accuracy or completeness thereof; however,
Osisko has no reason to believe such information is misleading or inaccurate.

For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see Osisko’s annual and/or quarterly management discussion and
analysis and other of its public disclosure documents filed with the Canadian
securities commissions and available electronically under Osisko's issuer
profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
The forward-looking statements set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations
as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 

 
 For further information please contact: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com

3