EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO GOLD ROYALTIES STREAMLINES OPERATIONS 
Options James Bay Portfolio to Osisko Mining 
Acquires 1% NSR on Windfall Lake 
(Montréal, August 16, 2016) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(OR:TSX, OR:NYSE) ("Osisko Royalties" or the "Corporation") is pleased to
announce that, as part of streamlining its operations to focus on royalties and
incubation investment, it has granted Osisko Mining Inc., (“Osisko Mining”) an
option to earn 100% of its interest on its portfolio of exploration properties
held in Québec’s James Bay and Labrador Trough areas. Under terms of the
agreement (the “Agreement”), the highly regarded Québec based exploration
portfolio will be optioned to Osisko Mining, who will have the right to acquire
100% of its ownership of the portfolio in return for time-based exploration
expenditures. Osisko Mining will benefit from the years of expertise brought to
bear on these projects from the former Virginia Mines exploration team (acquired
by Osisko Royalties in 2015), and will be able to continue significant
exploration programs through the integration of this team into Osisko Mining as
part of the transaction. 
Under the terms of the agreement, Osisko Mining may earn 50% of
Osisko Royalties’ interest following expenditures totaling $19.2 million, and
100% if its interest upon completing the total investment of $32 million over a
7 year period. Osisko Royalties will retain an escalating net smelter return
(“NSR”) royalty ranging from 1% to a maximum of 3.5% on the properties. New
properties acquired by Osisko Mining in the designated area during the 7 year
term of the agreement will also be subject to the Agreement, subject to certain
conditions. Osisko Royalties will undertake not to participate in any
exploration activities and will be bound not to compete with Osisko Mining in
areas covered by the Agreement, except for the continuation of activities of its
Coulon copper-zinc project held by Osisko Royalties and other Québec
institutional shareholders. 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer of Osisko Royalties, stated: “With today’s deal, we continue
to pursue our program of firmly establishing Osisko Gold Royalties as a leading
intermediate royalty company, while maintaining exposure to the exciting land
position acquired as part of the Virginia Mines acquisition in early 2015
through our holdings in Osisko Mining. This transaction demonstrates our
commitment to our focus on the royalty business while indirectly supporting the
creation of exploration and development value for our shareholders through our
significant position in Osisko Mining.” 
Messrs. André Gaumond, Senior Vice President Northern
Development, and Paul Archer, Vice President Exploration, will remain employees
of Osisko Royalties. 
Exercise of Option 
As part of the agreement, Osisko Royalties will exercise its
option (negotiated on June 30, 2015) on properties held by Osisko Mining as of
August 25, 2015, by paying $5 million. Under terms of this agreement, Osisko
will receive a 1% NSR royalty on Osisko Mining’s Windfall property and Urban
Barry property package in return for a cash payment of $5 million, additional to
its original equity investment of $17.8 million in August 2015.
1 

The transaction is subject to finalization of the documentation
with an effective date of October 1, 2016. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties is an intermediate precious metal royalty
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
52 royalties, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine (Canada)
and a 2.0 -3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada). It maintains a strong
financial position with cash resources of $425 million at June 30 2016 and has
distributed dividends to its shareholders during the past seven consecutive
quarters. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
Forward-Looking Statements 
This press release contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements, by their nature, require the Corporation to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Words such as “may”,
“will”, “would”, “could”, “expect”, “believe”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “intend”,
“estimate”, “continue”, or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as
terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Information contained in forward-looking statements
is based upon certain material assumptions that were applied in drawing a
conclusion or making a forecast or projection. The Corporation considers its
assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available, but
cautions the reader that its assumptions regarding future events, many of which
are beyond the control of the Corporation, may ultimately prove to be incorrect
since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the Corporation
and its business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, refer to the Corporation’s most recent Annual information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR. The forward-looking information set forth herein
reflects the Corporation’s expectations as at the date of this press release and
is subject to change after such date. The Corporation disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 

 
 
 
 
 For further information please contact Osisko Gold
 Royalties Ltd: 
 
 
 
 
 
 John Burzynski 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Senior Vice President, New Business Development 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (416) 363-8653 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 jburzynski@osiskogr.com
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com
2