EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 
OSISKO EXTENDS DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN TO
RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES 
(Montreal, September 7, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
("Osisko" or the "Company") (TSX:OR) (NYSE:OR) is pleased to announce
that its eligible shareholders who are residents of the United States can now
enroll their common shares in its dividend reinvestment plan (the
“Plan&rdquo;) commencing with the dividend to be paid on October 16,
2017 to shareholders on record as of September 30, 2017. Since its launch in
September 2015, the Plan has been available to shareholders who were residents
of Canada. 
The Plan allows shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends
into additional common shares either purchased on the open market through the
facilities of the Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”) or the New York
Stock Exchange (the “NYSE&rdquo;), or issued directly from treasury
by the Company, or acquired by a combination thereof. In the case of a treasury
issuance, the price will be the weighted average price of the common shares on
the TSX or the NYSE during the five (5) trading days immediately preceding the
dividend payment date, less a discount, if any, of up to 5%, at the
Company&rsquo;s sole election. No commissions, service charges or brokerage
fees are payable by shareholders who elect to participate in the Plan. 
To participate in the Plan, registered shareholders must
deliver a properly completed Plan enrolment form to AST Trust Company (Canada)
(the “Agent”) not less than five (5) business days before a dividend
record date. Registered shareholders who wish to participate in the Plan for the
October 16, 2017 dividend payment must deliver a Plan enrolment form to the
Agent no later than 4:00 p.m. Montréal Time on Friday, September 22, 2017. In
connection with the October 16, 2017 dividend payment date, the dividend to be
paid to participants in the Plan will be by way of common shares issued from
treasury at a 3% discount to the Average Market Price (as defined in the Plan).

A complete copy of the Plan and the enrolment form are
available on Osisko’s website at http://osiskogr.com/en/dividends/drip/.
Shareholders should carefully read the complete text of the Plan before making
any decisions regarding their participation in the Plan. 
Non-registered beneficial shareholders who wish to participate
in the Plan should contact their financial advisor, broker, investment dealer,
bank or other financial institution that holds their common shares to inquire
about the applicable enrolment deadline and to request enrolment in the Plan.
For more information on how to enroll or any other inquiries, contact the Agent
at 1-800-387-0825 (toll-free in Canada) or inquiries@canstockta.com. 
This press release is not an offer or a solicitation of an
offer of securities. Osisko has filed a registration statement (including a
prospectus) relating to the Plan with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. A copy of the registration statement (including a prospectus) is
available electronically from EDGAR (http://www.sec.gov) or by contacting
Osisko at info@osiskogr.com or 1 (514) 940-0670. 
1 

About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Following the Orion transaction, Osisko now holds a North American focused
portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes.
Osisko&rsquo;s portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone assets, including a
5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine, which is the largest gold mine in
Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource companies,
including a 15.7% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., a 14.7% interest in Osisko
Metals Incorporated, a 13.3% interest in Falco Resources Ltd. and a 33.4%
interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. For more
information, visit www.osiskogr.com. 
Forward-looking statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable Canadian
and U.S. securities laws. These forward-looking statements, by their nature,
require the Company to make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known
and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. In this news
release, these forward-looking statements may involve, but are not limited to,
comments with respect to the directors and officers of the Company, information
pertaining to the fact that all conditions for payment of the
dividend will be met and that such dividend will continue to be an “eligible
dividend” as defined in the Income Tax Act (Canada). Words such as "may",
"will", "would", "could", "expect", "believe", "plan", "anticipate", "intend",
"estimate", "continue", or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as
terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Information contained in forward-looking statements
is based upon certain material assumptions that were applied in drawing a
conclusion or making a forecast or projection, including that the financial
situation of the Company will remain favourable. The Company considers its
assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available, but
cautions the reader that its assumptions regarding future events, many of which
are beyond the control of the Company, may ultimately prove to be incorrect
since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the Company and
its business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on EDGAR
at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking information set forth
herein reflects Osisko’s expectations as at the date of this press release and
is subject to change after such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 
 

 
 
 
 For further information, please contact Osisko
 Gold Royalties Ltd: 
 
 
 
 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com

2