EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO ANNOUNCES RETIREMENT OF ANDRÉ GAUMOND FROM EXECUTIVE

(Montréal, November 8, 2016) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(the “Company” or “Osisko”) (TSX:OR) (NYSE:OR) announces today the retirement of
Mr. André Gaumond from his position of Senior Vice President of Northern
Development. An industry leader for over 30 years, Mr. Gaumond joined Osisko
following Osisko’s friendly acquisition of Virginia Mines Inc. in 2015, the
company he founded and ran with remarkable success for over 22 years. Among many
achievements over the course of these 22 years, the prolific Virginia became
Québec’s pre-eminent and most active exploration company, culminating with the
grass-roots discovery of the world-class Éléonore gold deposit in Québec’s James
Bay region. The successful exploration work by Mr. Gaumond and his Virginia team
led to the eventual acquisition of the deposit by Goldcorp in a deal valued at
approximately $500 million in 2006. With an investment of approximately $2
billion, Éléonore has gone on to become one of Québec’s largest gold producers,
and has created over 800 permanent high paying jobs for years to come. The
development has also attracted a number of Cree Nation Members as employees and
stimulated the development of Cree enterprises. 
Following the successful sale of Éléonore, Mr. Gaumond
continued his prior success with a number of other significant discoveries in
the James Bay region, including the discovery of the Coulon base metal deposit.

Mr. Gaumond’s entrepreneurial, business and discovery talents
have been recognized nationally and internationally with numerous awards over
the course of his dynamic career. A two-time winner of The Association de
l’exploration minière du Québec (AEMQ) “Prospector of the Year”
Award, Mr. Gaumond has also been awarded the Bill Dennis “Prospector of the
Year” Award by the Prospector and Developers Association of Canada (PDAC),
has been named “Mining Man of the Year” by the Northern Miner, and won a
number of other awards for leading the efforts to establish Fonds Restor-Action
Nunavik, which cleaned up abandoned historical exploration sites in Québec’s
Northern regions. André was also the recipient of the “Prix Mérite 2015”
of the Association of Graduates of École Polytechnique de Montréal, awarded to a
graduate of this prestigious Québec institution who has reached a superior level
of excellence in his professional and community activities. 
Mr. Gaumond has been and continues to be, an active contributor
along with various stakeholders and representatives to the development of
Québec’s “Plan Nord”. The Plan Nord philosophy is to develop the vast and
untapped northern region of Québec in a sustainable and responsible manner, a
philosophy that mirrors André’s own sentiments about the current and future
development of Northern Québec. 
Following his retirement, Mr. Gaumond will continue to serve on
the Board of Directors of Osisko, as well as acting from time to time, as a
technical advisor to Osisko and its associates. 
1 

Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer of Osisko noted: “The entire Osisko team would like to take
this opportunity to congratulate André Gaumond on his tremendously successful 30
year career in the mining business. He is truly one of a rare breed of
entrepreneurial explorers, having started as a geologist and going on to create
his own highly successful company. More importantly, André has managed to make a
difference not only through new discoveries but also through his conscious
policy of socially responsible development of our country’s natural resources.
We are so very happy that André will be continuing with us in his capacity as a
Director on our Board, and again we congratulate him on his proud career.”
Mr. Gaumond commented: “During my career, I have been
privileged to partner with many great individuals and institutions to create
wealth and make our society better. I would like to express my deep gratitude to
my dedicated team of professionals, the countless investors, as well as partners
that supported the pursuit of my vision of Northern resource development.” 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
Osisko Gold Royalties is an intermediate precious metal royalty
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. Osisko
holds over 50 royalties, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic
Mine (Canada) and a 2.0 -3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada). It
maintains a strong financial position with cash resources of $425 million at
June 30, 2016 and has distributed dividends to its shareholders during the past
eight consecutive quarters. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 

 
 
 
 
 For further information please contact Osisko Gold
 Royalties Ltd: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
 
 
 
 
 2