EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

OSISKO CLOSES GIBRALTAR SILVER STREAM ACQUISITION 
(Montréal, March 3, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(“Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to announce today that it has closed
the previously announced acquisition of a silver stream with reference to silver
produced at the Gibraltar copper mine (“Gibraltar”), located in British
Columbia, Canada, from Gibraltar Mines Ltd. (“Gibco”), a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Taseko Mines Limited (“Taseko”). Gibco owns a 75% joint-venture interest in
Gibraltar. 
Under its agreement with Taseko, Osisko has acquired 100% of
Taseko’s attributable share of payable silver production from Gibraltar until
the delivery of 5.9 million ounces of silver to Osisko, and thereafter 35% of
Taseko’s attributable share of payable silver production from Gibraltar. Osisko
has paid Taseko a one-time cash consideration of US$33 million for the silver
stream and will make ongoing payments of US$2.75 per ounce of silver delivered.

The acquisition is expected to increase Osisko's production by
approximately 200,000 ounces of silver for the next 14 years, increasing to an
average of 350,000 ounces of silver for the remainder of the 23-year reserve
life of Gibraltar. The transaction effective date is January 1, 2017. 
About Osisko 
Osisko Gold Royalties is an intermediate precious metal royalty
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine
(Canada) and a 2.0 -3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada). It maintains
a strong financial position with cash resources of $499.2 million at December
31, 2016 and has distributed $30.8 million in dividends to its shareholders
during the past nine consecutive quarters. Osisko also owns a portfolio of
publicly held resource companies, including a 14.9% interest in Osisko Mining
Inc., a 13.3% in Falco Resources Ltd, and a 16.9% interest in Barkerville Gold
Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
For further information please contact Osisko Gold
Royalties: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com

 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
1 

Forward-looking Statements 
This press release may contain “forward-looking information”
and “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable Canadian
securities laws and the United States Private Securities Legislation Reform Act
of 1995, respectively. All statements in this release, other than statements of
historical fact, that address future events, developments or performance that
Osisko expects to occur including management’s expectations regarding Osisko’s
growth, results of operations, estimated future revenues, requirements for
additional capital, mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates, production
estimates, production costs and revenue, future demand for and prices of
commodities, business prospects and opportunities are forward looking
statements. In addition, statements (including data in tables) relating to
reserves and resources and gold equivalent ounces are forward looking
statements, as they involve implied assessment, based on certain estimates and
assumptions, and no assurance can be given that the estimates will be realized.
Forward looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and are
generally, but not always, identified by the words “expects”, “plans”,
“anticipates”, “believes”, “intends”, “estimates”, “projects”, “potential”,
“scheduled” and similar expressions or variations (Including negative
variations), or that events or conditions “will”, “would”, “may”, “could” or
“should” occur including, without limitation, the performance of the assets of
Osisko, the realization of the anticipated benefits deriving from its
investments and the transaction with Taseko. Although Osisko believes the
expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on
reasonable assumptions, such statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance and
actual results may accordingly differ materially from those in forward looking
statements. Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially
from those in forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
fluctuations in the prices of the commodities that drive royalties held by
Osisko (gold and silver); fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar
relative to the U.S. dollar; regulatory changes in national and local
government, including permitting and licensing regimes and taxation policies;
regulations and political or economic developments in any of the countries where
properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest are located or
through which they are held; risks related to the operators of the properties in
which Osisko holds a royalty, influence of macroeconomic developments; business
opportunities that become available to, or are pursued by Osisko; continued
availability of capital and financing and general economic, market or business
conditions; litigation; title, permit or license disputes related to interests
on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest;
development, permitting, infrastructure, operating or technical difficulties,
delays or adverse climatic conditions on any of the properties in which Osisko
holds a royalty or other interest; rate and timing of production differences
from resource estimates or production forecasts by operators of properties in
which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest ; risks and hazards associated
with the business of exploring, development and mining on any of the properties
in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest, including, but not limited to
unusual or unexpected geological and metallurgical conditions, slope failures or
cave-ins, flooding and other natural disasters or civil unrest or other
uninsured risks. The forward looking statements contained in this press release
are based upon assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including,
without limitation: the ongoing operation of the properties in which Osisko
holds a royalty or other interest by the owners or operators of such properties
in a manner consistent with past practice; the accuracy of public statements and
disclosures made by the owners or operators of such underlying properties; no
material adverse change in the market price of the commodities that underlie the
asset portfolio; no adverse development in respect of any significant property
in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest; the accuracy of
publicly disclosed expectations for the development of underlying properties
that are not yet in production; and the absence of any other factors that could
cause actions, events or results to differ from those anticipated, estimated or
intended.
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko's issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. The
forward-looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations as
at the date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
2