EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO ANNOUNCES TSX APPROVAL TO RENEW NORMAL COURSE ISSUER
BID 
(Montréal, December 6, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(OR:TSX & NYSE) (the "Corporation" or "Osisko") today
announces that the Toronto Stock Exchange (the "TSX") has approved the
Corporation's notice of intention to make a normal course issuer bid (the
"NCIB Program"). Under the terms of the NCIB Program, Osisko may acquire
up to 10,567,441 of its common shares ("Common Shares") from time to time
in accordance with the normal course issuer bid procedures of the TSX. Any
repurchases under the NCIB Program will be made in Canada through the facilities
of the TSX. 
Repurchases under the NCIB Program may commence on December 11, 2017
and will terminate on December 10, 2018 or on such earlier date as the NCIB
Program is complete. Purchases of Common Shares under the NCIB Program will be
made in Canada through the facilities of the TSX in accordance with its rules.
Daily purchases will be limited to 95,695 Common Shares, other than block
purchase exemptions, representing 25% of the average daily trading volume of the
Common Shares on the TSX for the six month period ending November 30, 2017,
being 382,781 Common Shares. 
The price that the Corporation may pay for any Common Shares
purchased under the NCIB Program will be the prevailing market price at the time
of purchase and any Common Shares purchased by the Corporation will be
cancelled. The board of directors of Osisko believes that the underlying value
of the company may not be reflected in the market price of the Common Shares
from time to time and that, accordingly, the purchase of Common Shares will
increase the proportionate interest in the company of, and be advantageous to,
all remaining shareholders of the Corporation. 
As of December 4, 2017, there were 157,024,383 Common Shares
issued and outstanding. The 10,567,441 Common Shares that may be repurchased
under the NCIB Program represent approximately 10% of the public float of the
Corporation as of December 4, 2017, being 105,674,419 Common Shares. 
During the prior NCIB Program of the Corporation, which ended
on October 23, 2017, the Corporation obtained approval to purchase 5,330,217
Common Shares and actually purchased 150,000 Common Shares at a weighted average
price of $12.15 per Common Share through the facilities of the TSX. 
Osisko has
appointed Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd. to make any purchases under the
NCIB Program on its behalf. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams
and precious metal offtakes. Osisko's portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone
assets, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine, which is the
largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held
resource companies, including a 15.6% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., a 12.8%
interest in Osisko Metals Incorporated, a 13.3% interest in Falco Resources Ltd.
and a 32.8% interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko's head office is located at 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de
Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
1 

Forward-looking statements 
This press release contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements, by their nature, require the Corporation to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Words such as "may",
"will", "would", "could", "expect", "believe", "plan", "anticipate", "intend",
"estimate", "continue", or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as
terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements including the fact that the Corporation "expects",
"plans", "anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates", "projects",
"potential", "scheduled" and similar expressions or variations (Including
negative variations), or that events or conditions "will", "would", "may",
"could" or "should" occur including, without limitation, statements about the
board of directors of Osisko's belief that the NCIB Program is advantageous to
shareholders and that underlying value of the Corporation may not be reflected
in the market price of the Common Shares, the Corporation's intentions regarding
the NCIB Program, including the number of Common Shares that may be purchased
under the NCIB Program. Although Osisko believes the expectations expressed in
such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and
are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may accordingly
differ materially from those in forward looking statements. Factors that could
cause the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking
statements include, without limitation: fluctuations in the prices of the
commodities that drive royalties, streams and offtakes held by Osisko;
fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar;
regulatory changes by national and local government, including corporate law,
permitting and licensing regimes and taxation policies; continued availability
of capital and financing and general economic, market or business conditions;
business opportunities that become available to, or are pursued by Osisko; the
impossibility to acquire royalties and to fund precious metal streams; other
uninsured risks. The forward looking statements contained in this press release
are based upon assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including,
without limitation: the ongoing operation of the properties in which Osisko
holds a royalty or other interest by the owners or operators of such properties
in a manner consistent with past practice; the accuracy of public statements and
disclosures made by the owners or operators of such underlying properties; no
material adverse change in the market price of the commodities that underlie the
asset portfolio; no adverse development in respect of any significant property
in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest and the absence of any other
factors that could cause actions, events or results to differ from those
anticipated, estimated or intended. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements
made in this press release, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most
recent Annual Information Form of the Corporation, which is filed with (i) the
securities regulatory authorities in Canada and available electronically under
Osisko's issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com, and (ii) the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and available electronically under Osisko's issuer profile
on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. The
forward- looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko's
expectations as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after
such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
For further information, please contact Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com

 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
2