EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
EARLY WARNING NEWS RELEASE 
(Montréal, June 27, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (TSX
& NYSE:OR) (“Osisko”) announces that it has received from Harfang
Exploration Inc. (formerly RedQuest Capital Corp.) (“Harfang”) 5,000,000 common
shares of Harfang (the “Securities”), representing approximately 17.83% of the
issued and outstanding common shares of Harfang on an undiluted basis in
connection with a qualifying transaction described in Harfang’s filing statement
dated June 14, 2017 (the “Filing Statement”). The Securities were received in
exchange for 5,000,000 common shares of privately-held Ménarik Exploration Inc.
(formerly Harfang Exploration Inc.), as described in the Filing Statement. 
The Securities are subject to a TSX Venture Exchange Tier 2
Value Security Escrow Agreement (the “Escrow Agreement”). Upon release of the
Securities from escrow pursuant to the terms of the Escrow Agreement, Osisko may
dispose of the Securities in accordance with applicable securities laws. Osisko
may, from time to time and at any time, acquire additional shares and/or other
equity, debt or other securities or instruments of Harfang in the open market or
otherwise, and reserves the right to dispose of any or all of its Securities in
the open market or otherwise at any time and from time to time, and to engage in
similar transactions with respect to the Securities, the whole depending on
market conditions, the business and prospects of Harfang and other relevant
factors.
A copy of the early warning report to be filed by Osisko will
be available on SEDAR under Harfang’s profile. This news release is issued under
the early warning provisions of the Canadian securities legislation. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko is an intermediate precious metal royalty and stream
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties and streams, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian
Malartic Mine (Canada), a 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada)
and a silver stream on the Gibraltar Mine (Canada). It maintains a strong
financial position and has distributed $35.1 million in dividends to its
shareholders during the past ten consecutive quarters. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
For further information please contact: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com

1