EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO PRIVATE PLACEMENT & WARRANT EXERCISE WITH
DALRADIAN 
Provides Investment Update on Accelerator Model

(Montréal, October 10, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(the “Company” or “Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to announce that it
has entered into an agreement with Dalradian Resources Inc. (“Dalradian”)
pursuant to which the Company has agreed to purchase 19,217,687 common shares of
Dalradian at $1.47 per common share for a total investment of C$28.3 million
(the “Private Placement”). In addition, the Company plans to exercise 6.25
million warrants at $1.04 per warrant, bringing the total investment to
approximately C$34.8 million. 
Sean Roosen, Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko said,
“We are very pleased to participate in the advancement of one of the world’s top
undeveloped gold projects in a new emerging gold camp. We look forward to
working with Dalradian management, Orion and Dalradian’s stakeholders to provide
the necessary funding for the realization and development of the Curraghinalt
Gold Project.” 
Upon closing of the Private Placement and subsequent warrant
exercise, Osisko will own approximately 9.1% of Dalradian’s issued and
outstanding common shares.
The agreement entered into with Dalradian contains various
covenants and rights, including among other things, a standstill, participation
rights in favour of Osisko to maintain its pro rata interest in Dalradian and
rights to match other offers for project financing. 
Accelerator Model Update 
The Company also reports that it has divested its investment in
Arizona Mining Inc. (“Arizona”) for gross proceeds of $32.5 million, generating
a gain for Osisko of $22.8 million on the disposal of the investment, based on
the cash cost of the shares.
Following the divestiture, Osisko holds a 1% net smelter return
royalty on all sulfide ores of lead and zinc (and any copper, silver or gold
recovered from the concentrate from such ores) mined from Arizona’s world-class
Hermosa Project located in Santa Cruz County, Arizona, purchased for $10 million
in April 2016. Osisko continues to hold 4.5 million warrants, each convertible
into one common share of the Company at a price of $0.75 and expiring on October
25, 2017. 
The Company maintains an investment portfolio in publicly held
resource companies as part of its accelerator model. Principal holdings include:

15.7% interest in Osisko Mining Inc.; 32.8% interest in
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.; 13.3% interest in Falco Resources Ltd.; and
12.8% interest in Osisko Metals Ltd 
About Osisko Gold Royalties LtdOsisko Gold Royalties
Ltd is an intermediate precious metal royalty company focused on the Americas
that commenced activities in June 2014. Osisko holds a North American focused
portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s
portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone assets, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine, which is the largest
gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource
companies, including a 15.7% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., a 12.8% interest in
Osisko Metals Incorporated, a 13.3% interest in Falco Resources Ltd. and a 32.8%
interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 

Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
Forward-looking Statements Certain
statements contained in this press release may be deemed
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable
Canadian and U.S. securities laws. These forward-looking statements, by
their nature, require Osisko to make certain assumptions and necessarily involve
known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These
forward-looking statements, may involve, but are not limited to, comments with
respect to the directors and officers of Osisko and the exercise of warrants of
Dalradian. Words such as "may", "will", "would", "could", "expect", "believe",
"plan", "anticipate", "intend", "estimate", "continue", or the negative or
comparable terminology, as well as terms usually used in the future and the
conditional, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Information
contained in forward-looking statements is based upon certain material
assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making a forecast or
projection, including management's perceptions of historical trends, current
conditions and expected future developments, as well as other considerations
that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. Osisko considers its
assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available, but
cautions the reader that their assumptions regarding future events, many of
which are beyond the control of Osisko, may ultimately prove to be incorrect
since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect Osisko and its
business.
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in
this press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most
recent Annual Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian
securities commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer
profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on EDGAR
at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking information set forth herein
reflects Osisko’s expectations as at the date of this press release and is
subject to change after such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 
For further information please contact, please contact
Osisko Gold Royalties: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com