EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
INDEPENDENT PROXY ADVISORY FIRMS GLASS LEWIS AND ISS
RECOMMEND THAT OSISKO SHAREHOLDERS VOTE FOR THE PROPOSED
ACQUISITIONOF THE ORION MINE FINANCE ROYALTY PORTFOLIO 
Montréal, Québec, July 18, 2017 – Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(TSX & NYSE: OR) (“Osisko” or the “Company”) is pleased to announce that
Glass Lewis and Co. ("Glass Lewis") and Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
(“ISS”), two leading independent proxy advisory firms that provide voting
recommendations to institutional investors, have recommended that shareholders
of Osisko vote IN FAVOUR of the proposed acquisition of the Orion
Mine Finance royalty portfolio dated June 5, 2017 (“Transaction”). 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board and Chief Executive Office of
Osisko noted “We are pleased to receive the positive endorsement for our
transformational transaction to acquire the 74 royalty, metals stream, and
offtake agreement assets from Orion Mine Finance. We believe this transaction
complements our current portfolio extremely well and provides our shareholders
with increasing near-term cash flows.” 
Glass Lewis stated the Transaction to be “based on sound
rationale”. In reaching its conclusion, Glass Lewis commented that the
Transaction “would provide the Company with significantly greater size, scale
and mineral diversification, which in turn could enhance the Company’s
competitive position and access to capital” and as such recommended that Osisko
shareholders vote FOR the share issuance resolution associated
with the Transaction.1
ISS has also recommended that Osisko shareholders vote
FOR the share issuance resolution associated with the Transaction
for a number of reasons, including the fact “the proposed transaction makes
strategic sense as shareholders might benefit from upside potential of the large
royalty package with different advancement levels that maintains the Company's
precious metals focus and diversifies the Company's portfolio while keeping low
geopolitical risk. Moreover, the proposed transaction is expected to be
immediately accretive to the Company's cash flow per share and to double the
Company's near-term cash flow.”1
We encourage all Osisko shareholders to read the management
information circular with respect to the Transaction, which was filed on
Osisko’s issuer profiles on SEDAR and EDGAR on June 30, 2017. The management
information circular is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR
at www.sec.gov and contains a detailed description of the Transaction.

Osisko’s Board of Directors and Management UNANIMOUSLY
recommend that Shareholders vote FOR the share issuance resolution associated
with of the Transaction. 
___________________________1Permission
to quote from the ISS’and Glass Lewis’reports was neither sought nor
obtained.
1 

HOW TO VOTE
Due to essence of time, shareholders are encouraged to vote today using the internet,
telephone or facsimile.
Registered shareholders of Osisko
Registered shareholders may vote by:

 
 
 •
 Internet: www.cstvotemyproxy.com
 
 
 
 •
 Telephone: 1-888-489-7352 (North American Toll Free)
 
 
 
 •
 Facsimile: 1-866-781-3111 (North American Toll Free) or 416-368-2502 (outside North
America)
 
 
 
 •
 Mail: CST Trust Company, P.O. Box 721, Agincourt, ON M1S 0A1
 
 
 
 •
 Attending the meeting in person: 1 Place Ville Marie, Suite 4000, Montréal, Québec
 
 
 
 
 
 

Non-registered shareholders of Osisko
Shareholders who hold shares of Osisko through a bank or other intermediary will have different
 voting instructions. In most cases, non-registered shareholders will receive a voting instruction form as
 part of the meeting materials. Non-registered shareholders are encouraged to carefully follow the
instructions found therein, on how to submit their votes.
SHAREHOLDERS QUESTIONS
Shareholders of Osisko who have questions regarding the Transaction or require assistance with
 voting may contact Laurel Hill Advisory Group, the proxy solicitation agent, by telephone or email as
set forth below.
Laurel Hill Advisory Group
By telephone (North American Toll Free) at: 1-877-452-7184
By telephone (Collect Outside North America) at: +1-416-304-0211
By email at: assistance@laurelhill.com
About Osisko
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal royalty company focused on the Americas
that commenced activities in June 2014. Prior to the Transaction announced on June 5, 2017, it held
over 50 royalties and one stream, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine
(Canada), a 2.0% to 3.5% sliding scale NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada) and a silver
stream on the Gibraltar mine (Canada). It maintains a strong financial position with cash resources of
C$423.6 million at March 31, 2017 and has distributed C$39.4 million in dividends to its shareholders
during the past eleven consecutive quarters. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource
companies, including a 15.3% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., 13.3% in Falco Resources Ltd. and
33.4% in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300,
Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. For more information, visit www.osiskogr.com.
2

 
 
 
 For further information please contact, Osisko Gold
 Royalties: 
Vincent Metcalfe Vice President, Investor Relations
Tel. (514) 940-0670 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information

Certain statements contained in this press release may be
considered "forward-looking statements" or "forward-looking information" within
the meaning of applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. Any statement that
involves discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, interpretations,
beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions, future events or
performance (often but not always using phrases such as "expects", or "does not
expect", "is expected", "interpreted", "management's view", "anticipates" or
"does not anticipate", "plans", "budget", "scheduled", "forecasts", "estimates",
"believes" or "intends" or variations of such words and phrases or stating that
certain actions, events or results "may" or "could", "would", "might" or "will"
be taken to occur or be achieved) are not statements of historical fact and may
be forward-looking information and are intended to identify forward-looking
information. This forward-looking information is based on reasonable assumptions
and estimates of management of the Company, at the time it was made, involves
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements of Osisko to be materially different
from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by
such forward-looking information. Although the forward-looking information
contained in this news release is based upon what management believes, or
believed at the time, to be reasonable assumptions, Osisko cannot assure
shareholders and prospective purchasers of securities of the Company that actual
results will be consistent with such forward-looking information, as there may
be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended, and neither Osisko nor any other person assumes responsibility for the
accuracy and completeness of any such forward-looking information. Osisko does
not undertake, and assumes no obligation, to update or revise any such
forward-looking statements or forward-looking information contained herein to
reflect new events or circumstances, except as may be required by law.” 
3