EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 

 
 Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders of 
 
 Osisko Gold
 Royalties Ltd and Availability of Proxy-Related Materials 
 
 Take Action and Vote Today

MEETING DATE AND LOCATION

 
 Meeting Type: 
 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the
 “Meeting”) 
 
 
 
 
 When: 
 May 1, 2019 at 2:00 p.m. (Eastern Daylight
 Time) 
 
 
 
 
 Where: 
 Fairmont The Queen Elizabeth, 900 René-Lévesque
 Boulevard West, Montreal QC H3B 4A5 
BUSINESS OF THE MEETING

 
 
 1. 
 
 To receive the audited consolidated financial statements
 for the year ended December 31, 2018 and the independent auditor’s report
 thereon.
 
 
 2. 
 
 To elect the Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (“Osisko”
 or the “Corporation”) directors for the ensuing year.
 
 
 3. 
 
 To appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the
 Corporation’s independent auditor for the ensuing year and authorize the
 directors to fix its remuneration.
 
 
 4. 
 
 To approve the amended Deferred Share Unit Plan and
 approve all unallocated rights and entitlements under the plan.
 
 
 5. 
 
 To adopt an advisory resolution approving Osisko’s
 approach to executive compensation.
NOTICE-AND-ACCESS
The Corporation is using the notice-and-access model for
delivery of proxy-related materials to shareholders of common shares of Osisko
(the “Shareholders”). Under notice-and-access, Shareholders still receive
a proxy or voting instruction form enabling them to vote at the Meeting.
However, instead of a paper copy of the proxy-related materials, Shareholders
receive this notice with information on how they may access such materials
electronically. The use of this alternative means of delivery contributes to the
protection of the environment and will reduce the cost of printing and mailing
materials to Shareholders. 
WEBSITES WHERE PROXY-RELATED MATERIALS ARE POSTED
An electronic copy of the proxy-related materials is available
on the website of the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval
(SEDAR) at www.sedar.com and on Osisko’s
website http://www.osiskogr.com/en/2019-agm/.
HOW DO I OBTAIN A PRINTED COPY OF THE PROXY-RELATED
MATERIALS? 
Should you wish to receive paper copies of the proxy-related
materials, please send your request for a paper copy, free of charge, as
follows:
Objecting Beneficial Shareholders:

 
 By calling Broadridge Investor Communications Corporation toll-free at 1
 (877) 907-7643 and entering the 16-digit control number located on the voting
 instruction form; or 
 
 Via internet at www.proxyvote.com by
 using the 16-digit control number located in the voting instruction form sent
 to you. 
Registered and Non-Objecting Shareholders:

 
 By calling Laurel Hill Advisory Group toll-free 1 (877) 452-7184 if you are
 in North America, or 1 (416) 304-0211 if you are outside North America, or

 
 By emailing Laurel Hill Advisory Group at assistance@laurelhill.com. 
If you request the proxy-related materials before the Meeting,
these documents will be sent to you at no charge within 3 business days of
receiving your request. Please take note that no additional proxy form or
voting instruction form shall be sent to you. Therefore, please make sure that
you retain the form that you received with the Notice of Meeting for voting
purposes. To receive the proxy-related materials before the
voting deadline and the Meeting, your request must be received no later than
Tuesday, April 16, 2019.
If you request a copy of the proxy-related materials after
April 16, 2019 or in the year following their filing, it will be sent to you
within 10 calendar days of receiving your request. 

VOTING IS SIMPLE. PLEASE VOTE TODAY. 
WHO CAN VOTE? 
Holders of common shares of Osisko on the record date of March
19, 2019 are entitled to receive notice and to vote at the Meeting. 
HOW DO I VOTE? 
There are several convenient ways to vote your common shares
including by telephone or via the internet. You will find attached to this
notice, a form of proxy or a voting instruction form containing detailed
instructions on how to exercise your voting rights.

 
 
 Registered and Non-Objecting
 Beneficial Owners 
 Shares held in own name and represented by
 a physical certificate or Shares held with a broker, bank
 or other intermediary and are not restricted to Osisko
 knowing who the shareholder is. 
 Objecting Beneficial Owners
 
 Shares held with a broker, bank or other intermediary
 and shareholder information is restricted from Osisko. 
 
 Internet: 
 www.astvotemyproxy.com 
 www.proxyvote.com 
 
 Phone or
 Fax: 
 To vote by telephone you will need
 your control number provided in your form of proxy. Telephone: 1
 (888) 489-7352 Fax: 1 (866) 781-3111 (toll free in Canada and the
 United States) or 1 (416) 368-2502 
 Call or fax to the number(s) listed
 on your voting instruction form and vote using the control number
 provided therein. 
 
 Mail or
 Email: 
 Mail: Return the form of proxy in
 the enclosed postage paid envelope. Email: Scan to
 proxyvote@astfinancial.com 
 Return the voting instruction
 form in the enclosed postage paid envelope.

If you wish to attend and vote at the Meeting, please follow
the instructions found in the enclosed form of proxy or voting instruction
form.
Please submit your vote well in advance of the proxy deposit
deadline onApril 29, 2019 at 2:00 p.m. (Eastern Daylight
Time). 
BOARD RECOMMENDATION
The Board of Directors of Osisko unanimously recommends that
Shareholders VOTE FOR all the proposed resolutions. 
By order of the Board of Directors,
 

 
 Shareholders should carefully read the
 Management Information Circular dated March 21, 2019 before voting.
 If you have questions or require assistance with voting, please
 contact our proxy solicitation agent: Laurel Hill Advisory
 Group North American Toll-Free Number: 1-877-452-7184
 Collect Calls Outside North America: 1-416-304-0211
 Email: assistance@laurelhill.com 
2