EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO ENTERS INTO AGREEMENT TO AMEND RENARD STREAM
(Montréal, October 2, 2018) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(“Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to announce that it has entered into
an amended and restated purchase and sale agreement (the “Amended Renard
Streaming Agreement”) with Stornoway Diamond Corporation (“Stornoway”) in
relation to the Renard Stream (as herein defined) (“Stream Amendment”). As part
of the Stream Amendment, Osisko will provide Stornoway with the US$ equivalent
of C$21.6 million, representing Osisko’s share of an additional up-front deposit
provided to Stornoway. Certain other amendments are also being made to the
existing stream structure as part of the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement.

The Stream Amendment is part of a series of financing
transactions with Stornoway’s lenders and key stakeholders that provide
Stornoway with greater financial and operational flexibility representing up to
C$129 million in additional liquidity in the near term as the mine ramps up its
operations. 
Osisko will fund its share of the Stream Amendment through cash
on hand, representing an outlay of C$21.6 million during the fourth quarter of
2018. 
Commenting on the transaction, Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board
of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko said: “We are pleased to work
with Stornoway and its financial partners to provide greater financial
flexibility as the Renard mine ramps up its underground operations and
establishes itself as a solid diamond supplier to the marketplace”. 
Benefits of the Stream Amendment 
The Stream Amendment will provide Osisko with: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Enhanced cash operating margins on the Renard Stream in
 Québec, one of Osisko’s cornerstone assets; 
 
 
 • 
 
 Better downside protection on price and variations in the
 mine’s diamond size distribution, while maintaining full upside to
 increasing diamond prices, thus fully aligning the interests of Stornoway
 and the Streamers (as defined herein) with regard to diamond price
 appreciation and production of Incidentals (as defined herein); and
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Better exposure to exploration upside from the Renard
 property. 
Stream Amendment 
As part of the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement, Osisko,
along with Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, Triple Flag Mining Finance
Bermuda Ltd., Albion Exploration Fund, LLC and Washington State Investment Board
(collectively, the “Streamers”), which collectively own a 20% diamond stream on
the Renard mine (9.6% stream attributable to Osisko) (the “Renard Stream”), will
pay Stornoway the U.S. dollar equivalent of C$45 million in cash (C$21.6
million attributable to Osisko) as an additional up-front deposit to Stornoway’s
subsidiary, FCDC Sales and Marketing Inc. Certain other amendments are also
being made to the existing stream structure as part of the Amended Renard
Streaming Agreement. 
1 

The terms of the Amended Renard Streaming Agreement provide
that the Streamers shall continue to hold a 20% undivided interest (9.6% stream
attributable to Osisko) in all diamonds produced from the Renard mining property
for the life of the mine, however upon the completion of a sale of diamonds, the
Streamers will remit to Stornoway a cash transfer payment which shall be the
lesser of 40% of achieved sales price and US$40 per carat. 
Previously, the Renard Stream represented an undivided interest
in 20% of all diamonds produced from the first 5 project kimberlites to be mined
at Renard for the life of mine, and the first 30 million carats from the
property overall, with the Streamers remitting to Stornoway a cash transfer
payment of US$50 per carat escalating at 1% per annum.
In addition, for the purpose of calculating stream remittances,
Stornoway shall separately sell any diamonds smaller than the +7 DTC sieve size
that are recovered in excess of the maximum agreed-upon proportion within a sale
of run of mine (“ROM”) diamonds (the excess small diamonds or “Incidentals”). In
this manner, Stornoway shall restrict the proportion of small diamonds contained
in a ROM sale such that the Streamers and Stornoway will be fully
aligned on upside price exposure with downside protection on price and product
mix. 
Board Representation 
Pursuant to the Stream Amendment, Stornoway has granted to the
Streamers the right to nominate one member of the Stornoway board of directors
as long as their collective shareholding in Stornoway remain above 5%. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams
and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s portfolio is anchored by its 5% NSR
royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine, which is the largest gold mine in Canada.
Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource companies, including a
34.7% interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd., an 18.2% interest in Osisko
Mining Inc., a 15.7% interest in Victoria Gold Corp. and a 12.6% interest in
Falco Resources Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de
Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 

 
 For further information, please contact Osisko Gold
 Royalties: 
 
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
2 

Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. These
forward-looking statements, by their nature, require Osisko to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
These forward-looking statements, may involve, but are not limited
to the ramp-up of the Renard mine and the benefits of the Stream
Amendment to Osisko. Words such as “may”, “will”, “would”, “could”, “expect”,
“believe”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”, “continue”, or the
negative or comparable terminology, as well as terms usually used in the
future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Information contained in
forward-looking statements is based upon certain material
assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making a forecast or
projection, including management’s perceptions of historical trends,
current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other
considerations that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. Osisko
considers its assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently
available, but cautions the reader that their assumptions regarding future
events, many of which are beyond the control of Osisko, may ultimately prove to
be incorrect since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect
Osisko and its business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements
made in this press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in
the most recent Annual Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the
Canadian securities commissions and available electronically under
Osisko’s issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer
profile on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. The forward- looking
information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations as at the
date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
3