EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO ACCELERATOR MODEL NEWS: NEW DISCOVERY BY BGM 
(Montréal, Québec, April 18, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties
Ltd (TSX & NYSE:OR) is pleased to report that Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.
(“BGM”), one of Osisko Gold Royalties’ accelerator model investments, has
announced a new discovery from their ongoing 130,000 metre Phase II Island
Mountain and Valley Zone exploration drilling program at the Company's Cariboo
Gold Project (see BGM press release dated April 17, 2017). 
Osisko Gold Royalties owns 116,372,506 common shares of BGM
(35.2%) with a fair value of approximately $136.2 million as at April 17, 2017,
exceeding its acquired cash price by approximately $87.0 million. Osisko Gold
Royalties also owns a 2.25% NSR royalty over the BGM land package and holds a
right of first refusal relating to any gold stream offer received by BGM with
respect to the Cariboo gold project.
Sean Roosen, Chair and Chief Executive Officer, commenting on
BGM’s discovery news noted: “We would like to congratulate the BGM team on the
new discovery at Cariboo and their excellent drill results. The success at BGM
is an example of the strength of our unique accelerator model and the leverage
it provides to Osisko Gold Royalties shareholders. Osisko Gold Royalties has
developed one of the best growth portfolios of the royalty sector through its
accelerator model. We look forward to continuing success at BGM and helping all
of our partners further de-risk their projects while creating value for our
shareholders.” 
BGM (TSXV-BGM) 
BGM is focused on exploring and developing an extensive land
package in the historical Cariboo Mining District of Central British Columbia.
BGM is currently executing a 130,000 meter exploration drilling program and
reports that the company has received all permits to initiate production from
its Bonanza Ledge underground project at an initial rate of 150,000 tonnes per
year. 
Additional information on BGM can be obtained on their
corporate website www.barkervillegold.com and on SEDAR. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko is an intermediate precious metal royalty and stream
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties and streams, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian
Malartic Mine (Canada), a 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada)
and a silver stream on the Gibraltar Mine (Canada). It maintains a strong
financial position and has distributed $30.8 million in dividends to its
shareholders during the past nine consecutive quarters. Osisko also owns a
portfolio of publicly held resource companies, including a 14.8% interest in
Osisko Mining Inc., 13.3% in Falco Resources Ltd., and 35.2% interest in
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
1 

Qualified Person 
Mr. Paul Archer is the qualified person for this release as
defined by National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects and has reviewed and verified the technical information contained
herein. Mr. Paul Archer is an employee of Osisko Gold Royalties and is
non-independent.
Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward looking information” and “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of applicable Canadian Securities Laws and the United States Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (collectively, the
“forward-looking statements”). All statements in this press
release, other than statements of historical fact, that address future events,
developments or performance that Osisko expects to occur including management’s
expectations regarding Osisko’s growth, results of operations, estimated future
revenues, requirements for additional capital, mineral reserve and mineral
resource estimates, production estimates, production costs and revenue, future
demand for and prices of commodities, business prospects and opportunities are
forward-looking statements. In addition, statements (including data in tables)
relating to mineral reserves and mineral resources and gold equivalent ounces
are forward-looking statements, as they involve implied assessment, based on
certain estimates and assumptions, and no assurance can be given that the
estimates will be realized. Forward-looking statements are statements that are
not historical facts and are generally, but not always, identified by the words
“expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “intends”, “estimates”,
“projects”, “potential”, “scheduled” and similar expressions or variations
(including negative variations), or that events or conditions “will”, “would”,
“may”, “could” or “should” occur including, without limitation, the benefits
deriving from its investments in BGM, the successful results for BGM’s drilling
program, including the fact that any discovery may become economic and the
timely production of the Bonanza Ledge deposit in accordance with the amended
mining permits. Although Osisko believes the expectations expressed in such
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and are not
guarantees of future performance and actual results may accordingly differ
materially from those in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause
the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements
include, without limitation: fluctuations in the prices of the commodities that
drive royalties or other interests held by Osisko; risks related to the
operators of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest;
development, permitting, infrastructure, operating or technical difficulties on
any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest; risks
and hazards associated with the business of exploring, development and mining on
any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest. The
forward-looking statements contained in this press release are based upon
assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including, without limitation:
the ongoing operation by the operators of the properties in which Osisko holds a
royalty or other interest by the operators of such properties in a manner
consistent with past practice; the accuracy of public statements and disclosures
made by the operators of such underlying properties; the absence of material
adverse change in the market price of the commodities that underlie the asset
portfolio; the accuracy of publicly disclosed expectations for the development
of underlying properties that are not yet in production; and the absence of any
other factors that could cause actions, events or results to differ from those
anticipated, estimated or intended. Certain of the information contained in this
press release relating to the investee corporations is based on and derived from
publicly available information of the investee corporations. The forward-looking
statements issued from these investee corporations reproduced in this press
release are subject to change after the date of this press release. Osisko has
relied upon this information without having made independent inquiries as to the
accuracy or completeness thereof; however, Osisko has no reason to believe such
information is misleading or inaccurate. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see Osisko’s annual and/or quarterly management discussion and
analysis and other of its public disclosure documents filed with the Canadian
securities commissions and available electronically under Osisko's issuer
profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
The forward-looking statements set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations
as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
For further information please contact: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com

2