EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
CORPORATE UPDATE 
(Montréal, August 18, 2016) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(OR:TSX and OR:NYSE) ("Osisko" or the "Corporation") reports that Messrs. John
Burzynski, Senior Vice President New Business Development, and Robert Wares,
Chief Geologist, have resigned from their executive positions with Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd effective August 31st 2016 in order to focus their
efforts on Osisko Mining Inc. (“Osisko Mining”). 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer of Osisko, stated: “During the past year, John and Bob have
contributed to the recreation of Osisko Mining as a strong emerging gold
development company with advanced exploration projects in Québec and Ontario. As
key founders of Osisko Exploration Ltée in 2003, through the change over to
Osisko Mining Corporation with the discovery, definition, financing, building
and commissioning of the world class Canadian Malartic gold mine, they have the
full experience and track record of creating tremendous shareholder value,
helping take Osisko Exploration Ltée from its humble beginnings to its eventual
$4.1B sale. It is their goal to repeat this success with Osisko Mining Inc., a
company in which Osisko Gold Royalties owns a 16% equity interest, as well as
royalties on the key properties.” 
Mr. Burzynski will remain as a Director of Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties is an intermediate precious metal royalty
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
52 royalties, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine (Canada)
and a 2.0 -3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada). It maintains a strong
financial position with cash resources of $425 million at June 30 2016 and has
distributed dividends to its shareholders during the past seven consecutive
quarters. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
1 

Forward-Looking Statements 
This press release contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements, by their nature, require the Corporation to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Words such as “may”,
“will”, “would”, “could”, “expect”, “believe”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “intend”,
“estimate”, “continue”, or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as
terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Information contained in forward-looking statements
is based upon certain material assumptions that were applied in drawing a
conclusion or making a forecast or projection. The Corporation considers its
assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available, but
cautions the reader that its assumptions regarding future events, many of which
are beyond the control of the Corporation, may ultimately prove to be incorrect
since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the Corporation
and its business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, refer to the Corporation’s most recent Annual information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR. The forward-looking information set forth herein
reflects the Corporation’s expectations as at the date of this press release and
is subject to change after such date. The Corporation disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 

 
 
 
 For further information please contact Osisko Gold
 Royalties Ltd: 
 
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
2