EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.:Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
ANNUAL INFORMATION FORM 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017

DATED AS OF MARCH 28, 2018 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
 GENERAL
 MATTERS 
 3 
 
 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING
 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 3
 
 
 CAUTIONARY
 NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS REGARDING PREPARATION
 OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
 4
 
 
 CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS REGARDING THE
 USE OF MINERAL RESERVE AND
 MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES 
 5
 
 
 EXCHANGE
 RATE DATA 
 6 
 
 GLOSSARY
 OF TERMS 
 7
 
 
 CORPORATE
 STRUCTURE 
 19 
 
 DESCRIPTION
 OF BUSINESS 
 20
 
 
 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF OSISKO’S
 BUSINESS 
 31 
 
 RISK
 FACTORS 
 40
 
 
 MATERIAL
 MINERAL PROJECTS 
 53 
 
 DIVIDENDS
 
 57
 
 
 DESCRIPTION
 OF CAPITAL STRUCTURE 
 58 
 
 MARKET
 FOR SECURITIES 
 61
 
 
 DIRECTORS
 AND OFFICERS 
 63 
 
 LEGAL
 PROCEEDINGS AND REGULATORY ACTIONS 
 72
 
 
 INTEREST OF
 MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS IN MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS 
 72 
 
 TRANSFER
 AGENTS AND REGISTRARS 
 72
 
 
 MATERIAL
 CONTRACTS 
 72 
 
 INTERESTS
 OF EXPERTS 
 73
 
 
 ADDITIONAL
 INFORMATION 
 73 
 
 AUDIT
 COMMITTEE 
 74
 
 
 SCHEDULE
 A - AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER 
 77 
 
 SCHEDULE B - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE
 CANADIAN MALARTIC PROPERTIES
 83
 
 
 SCHEDULE C - TECHNICAL
 INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE ÉLÉONORE MINE 
 94 
 
 SCHEDULE D - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE
 RENARD DIAMOND MINE 
 104 
 
 SCHEDULE E - TECHNICAL
 INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE BRUCEJACK MINE 
 145 
 
 SCHEDULE F - TECHNICAL INFORMATION
 UNDERLYING THE MANTOS BLANCOS MINE 
 168 
2 

GENERAL MATTERS
The information contained in this Annual Information Form,
unless otherwise indicated, is given as of December 31, 2017. More current
information may be available on our public website at www.osiskogr.com,
on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. In
addition, we generally maintain supporting materials on our website which may
assist in reviewing (but are not to be considered part of) this Annual
Information Form. 
All capitalized terms used in this Annual Information Form and
not defined herein have the meaning ascribed in the “Glossary of Terms” or
elsewhere in this Annual Information Form.
Unless otherwise noted or the context otherwise indicates, the
term “Osisko” refers to Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd and its subsidiaries.
For reporting purposes, Osisko presents its financial
statements in Canadian dollars and in conformity with IFRS. 
Unless otherwise indicated herein, references to “$”, “C$” or
“Canadian dollars” are to Canadian dollars, and references to “US$” or “U.S.
dollars” are to United States dollars. See “Exchange Rate Data”. See also
“Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS
Certain statements contained in this Annual Information Form
may be deemed “forward looking information” and “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of applicable Canadian Securities Laws and the United States
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (collectively, the
“forward-looking statements”). All statements in this Annual Information
Form, other than statements of historical fact, that address future events,
developments or performance that Osisko expects to occur including management’s
expectations regarding Osisko’s growth, results of operations, estimated future
revenues, requirements for additional capital, mineral reserve and mineral
resource estimates, production estimates, production costs and revenue, future
demand for and prices of commodities, business prospects and opportunities are
forward-looking statements. In addition, statements (including data in tables)
relating to mineral reserves and mineral resources and gold equivalent ounces
are forward-looking statements, as they involve implied assessment, based on
certain estimates and assumptions, and no assurance can be given that the
estimates will be realized. Forward-looking statements are statements that are
not historical facts and are generally, but not always, identified by the words
“expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “intends”, “estimates”,
“projects”, “potential”, “scheduled” and similar expressions or variations
(including negative variations), or that events or conditions “will”, “would”,
“may”, “could” or “should” occur including, without limitation, the performance
of the assets of Osisko, and the growth of and the benefits deriving from its
portfolio of investments. Although Osisko believes the expectations expressed in
such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and
are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may accordingly
differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Factors that could
cause the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking
statements include, without limitation: fluctuations in the prices of the
commodities that drive royalties, streams or other interests held by Osisko;
fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar;
regulatory changes in national and local government, including permitting and
licensing regimes and taxation policies; whether or not Osisko is determined to
have “passive foreign investment company” status (“PFIC”) as defined in
Section 1297 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
potential changes in Canadian tax treatment of offshore streams; regulations and
political or economic developments in any of the countries where properties in
which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests are located or through
which they are held; risks related to the operators of the properties in which
Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests; influence of macroeconomic
developments; business opportunities that become available to, or are pursued by
Osisko; continued availability of capital and financing and general economic,
market or business conditions; litigation; title, permit or license disputes
related to interests on any of the properties in which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests;
development, permitting, infrastructure, operating or technical difficulties on
any of the properties in which Osisko holds royalties, stream or other
interests; rate and timing of production differences from resource estimates or
production forecasts by operators of properties in which Osisko holds royalties,
streams or other interests; risks and hazards associated with the business of
exploring, development and mining on any of the properties in which Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests, including, but not limited to unusual or
unexpected geological and metallurgical conditions, slope failures or cave-ins,
flooding and other natural disasters or civil unrest or other uninsured risks.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Information Form are
based upon assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including, without
limitation: the ongoing operation by the operators of the properties in which
Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests by the operators of such
properties in a manner consistent with past practice; the accuracy of public
statements and disclosures made by the operators of such underlying properties;
the absence of material adverse change in the market price of the commodities
that underlie the asset portfolio; Osisko’s ongoing income and assets relating
to determination of its PFIC status; no material changes to existing tax
treatment; no adverse development in respect of any significant property in
which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests; the accuracy of
publicly disclosed expectations for the development of underlying properties
that are not yet in production; and the absence of any other factors that could
cause actions, events or results to differ from those anticipated, estimated or
intended. 
3

Although Osisko has attempted to identify important factors
 that could cause actual plans, actions, events or results to differ materially
 from those described in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors
 that cause plans, actions, events or results not to be as anticipated, estimated
 or intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will
 prove to be accurate, as actual plans, results and future events could differ
 materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, readers
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 
Certain of the forward-looking statements and other information
contained herein concerning the mining industry and Osisko’s general
expectations concerning the mining industry are based on estimates prepared by
Osisko using data from publicly available industry sources as well as from
market research and industry analysis and on assumptions based on data and
knowledge of this industry which Osisko believes to be reasonable. However,
although generally indicative of relative market positions, market shares and
performance characteristics, this data is inherently imprecise. While Osisko is
not aware of any misstatement regarding any industry data presented herein, the
mining industry involves risks and uncertainties that are subject to change
based on various factors. 
The readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements. Osisko undertakes no obligation to update any of the
forward-looking statements in this Annual Information Form, except as required
by law. Unless otherwise indicated, these statements are made as of the date of
this Annual Information Form. 
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS REGARDING PREPARATION
OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
As a Canadian company, Osisko prepares its financial statements
in accordance with IFRS. Consequently, all of the financial statements and
financial information of Osisko is prepared in accordance with IFRS, which are
materially different than financial statements and financial information
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

4

CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS REGARDINGTHE USE
OF MINERAL RESERVE AND MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES
Osisko is subject to the reporting requirements of the
applicable Canadian securities laws, and as a result reports its mineral
resources and the mineral reserves and mineral resources of the projects it has
an interest in according to Canadian standards. Canadian reporting requirements
for disclosure of mineral properties are governed by NI 43-101. The definitions
of NI 43-101 are adopted from those given by the CIM. U.S. reporting
requirements are governed by Guide 7. This Annual Information Form includes
estimates of mineral reserves and mineral resources reported in accordance with
NI 43-101. These reporting standards have similar goals in terms of conveying an
appropriate level of confidence in the disclosures being reported, but embody
different approaches and definitions. For example, under Guide 7, mineralization
may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has been made that
the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at
the time the reserve determination is made. Consequently, the definitions of
“Proven Mineral Reserves” and “Probable Mineral Reserves” under CIM standards
differ in certain respects from the standards of the SEC. Osisko also reports
estimates of “mineral resources” in accordance with NI 43-101. While the terms
“Mineral Resource,” “Measured Mineral Resource,” “Indicated Mineral Resource”
and “Inferred Mineral Resource” are recognized by NI 43-101, they are not
defined terms under standards of the SEC and, generally, U.S. companies are not
permitted to report estimates of mineral resources of any category in documents
filed with the SEC. As such, certain information contained in this Annual
Information Form concerning descriptions of mineralization and estimates of
mineral reserves and mineral resources under Canadian standards is not
comparable to similar information made public by United States companies subject
to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. Readers are cautioned
not to assume that all or any part of Measured Mineral Resources or Indicated
Mineral Resources will ever be converted into Mineral Reserves. Readers are also
cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource
exists, or is economically or legally mineable. Further, an “Inferred Mineral
Resource” has a great amount of uncertainty as to its existence and as to its
economic and legal feasibility, and a reader cannot assume that all or any part
of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred Mineral Resources may not form the
basis of feasibility or other economic studies. 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING THIRD PARTY
INFORMATION
The disclosure in this Annual Information Form relating to the
properties in which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests and the
operations on such properties is based on information publicly disclosed by the
owners or operators of these properties and information or data available in the
public domain as at March 28, 2018 (except where stated otherwise), and none of
this information or data has been independently verified by Osisko. As a holder
of royalties, streams and other interests, Osisko generally has limited, if any,
access to the properties included in or relating to its asset portfolio.
Therefore, in preparing disclosure pertaining to the properties in which Osisko
holds royalties, streams or other interests and the operations on such
properties, Osisko is dependent on information publicly disclosed by the owners
or operators of these properties and information or data available in the public
domain and generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such
information or data. Although Osisko has not any knowledge that such information
or data is incomplete or inaccurate, there can be no assurance that such third
party information or data is complete or accurate. Additionally, some
information or data publicly reported by the owners or operators may relate to a
larger property than the area covered by the royalties, streams or other
interests of Osisko. Often, the royalties, streams or other interests of Osisko
cover less than 100% and sometimes only a portion of the publicly reported
mineral reserves, mineral resources or production of a property. 
NON-IFRS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Osisko has included certain non-IFRS measures including
“Adjusted Earnings” and “Adjusted Earnings per share” (which have no standard
definition under IFRS) to supplement its consolidated financial statements,
which are presented in accordance with IFRS. 
5

Osisko believes that these measures, together with measures
determined in accordance with IFRS, provide investors with an improved ability
to evaluate the underlying performance of Osisko. Non-IFRS measures do not have
any standardized meaning prescribed under IFRS, and, therefore, they may not be
comparable to similar measures employed by other companies. The data is intended
to provide additional information and should not be considered in isolation or
as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.

EXCHANGE RATE DATA
The following table sets forth the high and low exchange rates
for one U.S. dollar expressed in Canadian dollars for each period indicated, the
average of the exchange rates for each period indicated and the exchange rate at
the end of each such period, based upon the exchange rates provided by the Bank
of Canada: 

 
 
 Year Ended December
 31 
 
 2017 
 2016 
 2015 
 
 ($C) 
 (C$) 
 (C$) 
 
 High 
 1.3743 
 1.4589 
 1.3990 
 
 Low 
 1.2128 
 1.2544 
 1.1728 
 
 Average rate for period 
 1.2986 
 1.3248 
 1.2787 
 
 Rate at end of period 
 1.2545 
 1.3427 
 1.3840 
On March 27, 2018, the exchange rate for one U.S. dollar
expressed in Canadian dollars as reported by the Bank of Canada, was 1.2869.

6

GLOSSARY OF TERMS
In this Annual Information Form, the following capitalized
words and terms shall have the following meanings: 
“2015 Underwriters” means Macquarie Capital Markets
Canada Ltd., RBC Dominion Securities Inc., National Bank Financial Inc., BMO
Nesbitt Burns Inc., CIBC World Markets Inc., TD Securities Inc., Scotia Capital
Inc., Cormark Securities Inc., Paradigm Capital Inc. and Edgecrest Capital
Corporation.
“2015 Underwriting Agreement” means the underwriting
agreement dated February 18, 2015 between the 2015 Underwriters and Osisko. 
“2015 Warrant Indenture” means warrant indenture dated
February 18, 2015 between Osisko and CST Trust Company, as warrant agent,
pursuant to which the SW Warrants were created and issued and by which they are
governed. 
“2016 Underwriters” means BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc., RBC
Dominion Securities Inc., National Bank Financial Inc., Macquarie Capital
Markets Canada Ltd., CIBC World Markets Inc., Haywood Securities Inc., Scotia
Capital Inc., TD Securities Inc., Cormark Securities Inc., Dundee Securities
Ltd. and Paradigm Capital Inc. 
“2016 Underwriting Agreement” means the underwriting
agreement dated February 11, 2016 between the 2016 Underwriters and Osisko. 
“2016 Units” has the meaning ascribed under the heading
“General Development of Osisko’s Business -2016 - $173 Million Bought Deal
Public Offering”. 
“2016 Warrant Indenture” means the warrant indenture
dated February 26, 2016 between Osisko and CST Trust Company as warrant agent
pursuant to which the common share purchase warrants underlying the 2016 Units
were created and issued and by which they are governed. 
“2017 Credit Agreement” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Increase of
Credit Facility to $350 Million”.
“2017 Underwriters” means National Bank Financial Inc.,
BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc. and Desjardins Securities Inc., Macquarie Capital Markets
Canada Ltd., RBC Dominion Securities Inc., CIBC World Markets Inc., Scotia
Capital Inc., TD Securities Inc., Canaccord Genuity Corp., Cormark Securities
Inc., Haywood Securities Inc., Paradigm Capital Inc. and Raymond James Ltd. 
“2017 Underwriting Agreement” means the underwriting
agreement dated October 20, 2017 between the 2017 Underwriters and Osisko. 
“2018 Non-Stream Option” means the option of Pretium
Exploration under the Brucejack Stream Agreement to elect to repurchase the
entire 8% stream by paying US$237 million (US$118.5 million to OBL). 
“2018 Stream Option” means the option of Pretium
Exploration under the Brucejack Stream Agreement to reduce the stream to 3% of
Refined Precious Metals by paying US$150 million (US$75 million to OBL), in
which case the stream deliveries would commence January 1, 2019. 
“2019 Non-Stream Option” means the option of Pretium
Exploration under the Brucejack Stream Agreement to repurchase the entire 8%
stream by paying US$272 million ($US136 million to OBL). 
“2019 Stream Option” the option of Pretium Exploration
under the Brucejack Stream Agreement to reduce the stream to 4% of Refined
Precious Metals by paying US$150 million, in which case the stream deliveries
would commence on January 1, 2020. 
“affiliate” has the meaning ascribed in the
Securities Act (Québec), unless stated otherwise. 
“Ag” is the chemical symbol for silver.
7

“Aggregate Gold Quantity” means 7,067,000 ounces of
refined gold (less the amount delivered by Pretium Exploration including under
the Brucejack Offtake Agreement) times the Designated Metal Percentage. 
“Aggregate Silver Quantity” means the product of
26,297,000 ounces of refined silver (less the amount delivered by Pretium
Exploration under the Brucejack Offtake Agreement) times the Designated Metal
Percentage. 
“Agnico” means Agnico Eagle Mines Limited.
“Agnico-Yamana Arrangement” means the arrangement
transaction that closed on June 16, 2014 pursuant to which (a) Agnico and Yamana
jointly acquired all of the common shares of Osisko Mining Corporation (now
Canadian Malartic Corporation), (b) Osisko acquired the OMC Assets and (c) each
of the former holders of Osisko Mining Corporation received in exchange for each
OMC Share so held (i) $2.09 in cash; (ii) 0.07264 of an Agnico common share;
(iii) 0.26471 of a Yamana common share; and (iv) 0.1 of an Osisko Share on a
post-consolidation basis. 
“Aquila” means Aquila Resources Inc.
“Aquila Private Placement” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition
of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan,
USA”. 
“Aquila Shares” means the common shares in the capital
of Aquila. 
“Arizona Mining” means Arizona Mining Inc.
“associate” has the meaning ascribed in the
Securities Act (Québec), unless stated otherwise.
“Au” is the chemical symbol for gold.
“Back Forty CoC Provision” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition
of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan,
USA”. 
“Back Forty Deposit” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition of a Gold
Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan, USA”. 
“Back Forty Fourth Deposit” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition
of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan,
USA”. 
“Back Forty Project” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition of a Gold
Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan, USA”. 
“Back Forty Tail Stream” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition of a
Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan, USA”.

“Back Forty Threshold Stream” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition
of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s Back Forty Project in Michigan,
USA”. 
8

“Barkerville” means Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.
“Barrick” means Barrick Gold Corporation. 
"BHS" means blasthole shrinkage. 
“Brucejack Mine” or “Brucejack Property” means
the Brucejack gold mine located in Northwestern British Columbia operated by
Pretium Resources. 
“Brucejack Offtake Agreement” means the offtake
agreement dated September 15, 2015 among Pretium Exploration, Pretium Resources,
0890696 B.C. Ltd., Orion Stream II and BTO. 
“Brucejack Report” has the meaning ascribed under
“Schedule E - Technical Information Underlying the Brucejack Mine”. 
“Brucejack Stream” means OBL’s 4.0% gold and silver
stream on the Brucejack gold mine located in British Columbia, Canada. 
“Brucejack Stream Agreement” means the gold and silver
purchase and sale agreement dated September 15, 2015 among Orion Stream II and
BTO, as purchasers, Pretium Resources and Pretium Exploration, as sellers, Orion
Stream II, as purchaser’s agent and Orion Co-Investments II (ED) Limited, as
collateral agent. 
“Brucejack Stream Partners” means OBL and BTO Midas L.P.

“BTO” means BTO Midas L.P.
“Canadian Malartic Corporation” means Canadian Malartic
Corporation (formerly Osisko Mining Corporation). 
“Canadian Malartic GP” means Canadian Malartic GP, a
general partnership existing under the laws of Ontario. 
“Canadian Malartic Properties” means the properties that
are subject to the Canadian Malartic Royalty. 
“Canadian Malartic Report” has the meaning ascribed
under “Schedule B - Technical Information Underlying the Canadian Malartic
Properties”. 
“Canadian Malartic Royalty” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “Material Mineral Projects - The Canadian Malartic Royalty”.

“Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement” means the amended
and restated net smelter return royalty agreement dated June 16, 2014 between
Osisko and Canadian Malartic GP. 
“CAPEX” means capital expenditures.
“CBCA” means the Canada Business Corporations Act
and the regulations made thereunder. 
“CDPQ” means Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec.
“CIM” means the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy
and Petroleum. 
“Coulon” means Coulon Mines Inc.
“Coulon Exchange Rights” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 - Closing of
Virginia Arrangement”. 
“Coulon Exchange Rights Agreement” has the meaning
ascribed under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 -
Closing of Virginia Arrangement”. 
9

“cpht” means carats per hundred tonnes. 
“CRA” means the Canada Revenue Agency.
“CRB” means country rock breccia.
“cts” means carats.
“Credit Agreement” means the $100 million revolving
credit facility agreement dated November 21, 2014 between Osisko and National
Bank of Canada. 
“Cu” is the chemical symbol for copper. 
“Dalradian” means Dalradian Resources Inc.
“Debentures” has the meaning ascribed under the heading
“General Development of Osisko’s Business -2017 - Closing of a $300 million
financing of Debentures”. 
“Declaration of Partnership” means the Declaration of
Partnership executed by Stornoway in July 2012, with the communities of
Chibougamau and Chapais in the James Bay Region of Québec. 
“Designated Metal Percentage” means 8%, unless (i)
Pretium Resources exercises the 2018 Stream Option, in which case it will be 3%,
or (ii) Pretium Resources exercises the 2019 Stream Option, in which case it
will be 4%. 
“DMS” means dense medium separation.
“Dividend Reinvestment Plan” means Osisko’s dividend
reinvestment plan. 
“Eagle Project” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition of a gold
royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”.

“Eagle Royalty” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition of a gold
royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”.

“Eagle Royalty Purchase” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition of a
gold royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”.

“EDGAR” means the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis
and Retrieval system.
“Éléonore Mine” means the properties that are subject to
the Éléonore Royalty. 
“Éléonore Report” has the meaning ascribed under
“Schedule C - Technical Information Underlying the Éléonore Mine”. 
“Éléonore Royalty” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “Material Mineral Projects - The Éléonore Royalty”. 
“Éléonore Royalty Agreement” means the royalty agreement
dated March 31, 2006 and amended on May 12, 2014, between Goldcorp, VGM (now Les
Mines Opinaca Ltée, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Goldcorp) and Virginia (before
its amalgamation to become “Osisko Exploration James Bay Inc.”). 
“Exchange Ratio” means 0.92 Osisko Share for each
Virginia Share. 
“Falco” means Falco Resources Ltd.
“Falco Shares” means the common shares in the capital of
Falco. 
“FCDC” means FCDC Sales and Marketing Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of SDCI.
10

“Fonds FTQ” means Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs
du Québec (F.T.Q.). 
“forward-looking statements” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”.

“Foxtrot Property” means, collectively, the property
comprised of 650 claims (33,629.95 ha) in four blocks (one large contiguous
landholding of 630 claims plus three smaller blocks), mining lease BM 1021 and a
surface lease number 1303 10 000 (199.85 ha).
“GEOs” means gold equivalent ounces. 
“Goldcorp” means Goldcorp Inc. 
“Golder” means Golder Associates Ltd.
“Gross Proceeds” means the portion of the actual gross
selling price of the Subject Diamond pursuant to a permitted sale that is
attributable to the Subject Diamonds Interest in such Subject Diamond. 
“GRR” means gross revenue royalty. 
“Guide 7” means the SEC’s Industry Guide 7. 
“g/t” means gram per tonne. 
“ha” means hectare.
“Highland” means Highland Copper Company Inc. 
“HPGR” means high-pressure grinding roll. 
“IFRS” means International Financial Reporting Standards
adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board, as updated and amended
from time to time. 
“HK” means hypabyssal kimberlite. 
“IRR” means internal rate of return.
“James Bay Regional Government” means a joint Regional
Government composed of Crees and Jamésiens. 
“JBNQA” means the James Bay and Northern Québec
Agreement 1975. 
“k” means thousand. 
“kg” means kilogram. 
“km” means kilometre. 
“km²” means square kilometre. 
“kV” means kilovolt. 
“l” means litre. 
“L” means Mine level (depth below surface in metres).

“LDR” means large diamond recovery. 
“LHOS” means long hole open stoping. 
11

“LNG” means liquefied natural gas. 
“LOM” means life-of-mine. 
“m” means metre. 
“m²” means square metre. 
“m3” means cubic metre. 
“Ma” means mega annum (million years).
“Malartic CHL Prospect” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 - Malartic CHL
Prospect”. 
“Mantos” means Mantos Copper S.A.
“Mantos Blancos Mine” means the Mantos Blancos copper
mine located in northern Chile operated by Mantos. 
“Mantos Blancos Report” has the meaning ascribed under
“Schedule F - Technical Information Underlying the Mantos Blancos Mine”. 
“Mantos Blancos Stream” means the 100% silver stream on
the Mantos Blancos Mine. 
“Mantos Silver Purchase Price” means the purchase price
for silver under the Mantos Stream Agreement. 
“Mantos Stream Agreement” means the silver purchase
agreement dated September 11, 2015, as amended on March 9, 2016 and July 31,
2017, between Mantos, as seller and TitheCo, as purchaser, governing the
purchase of silver produced at the Mantos Blancos Mine. 
“masl” means meters above sea level.
“Mecheshoo Agreement” means the impact and benefits
agreement dated March 27, 2012 between SDCI, the Cree Nation of Mistissini, The
Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Regional Authority. 
“MERN” means the Ministère de l’Énergie et des
Ressources naturelles (Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources) (formerly
the MRNF). 
“Michigan Projects” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2014 – Highland Copper
Company Inc.”. 
“mm” means millimetre. 
“Mt” means million tonnes (metric tons) 
“MW” means megawatts. 
“NCIB Program” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Normal Course Issuer
Bid Program”. 
“NG” means natural gas.
“NI 43-101” means National Instrument 43-101 -
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (or Regulation 43-101
respecting Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects in the Province
of Québec). 
“NI 51-102” means National Instrument 51-102 -
Continuous Disclosure Obligations (or Regulation 51-102 respecting
Continuous Disclosure Obligations in the Province of Québec). 
12

“NI 52-110” means National Instrument 52-110 - Audit
Committees (or Regulation 52-110 respecting Audit Committees in the
Province of Québec). 
“NioGold” means NioGold Mining Corporation.
“NioGold Arrangement” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - Osisko Mining Inc.
and NioGold Mining Corporation”. 
“Noranda” means Noranda Inc. 
“Nottaway” means Ressources Nottaway Inc. 
“NPI” means net profit interest royalty. 
“NPV” means net present value. 
“NSR” means net smelter return. 
“NYSE” means the New York Stock Exchange.
 “OBL” means Osisko Bermuda Limited. 
“OMC Assets” means the assets contributed pursuant to
the OMC Contribution Agreement including the following: (a) $157,000,000 in
cash; (b) the Canadian Malartic Royalty; (c) the publicly traded equity
investments of OMC held at the effective time of the Agnico-Yamana Arrangement;
and (d) all right, title and interest to the name “Osisko Mining Corporation”.

“OMC Contribution Agreement” means the contribution
agreement dated June 16, 2014 between Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian
Malartic Corporation) and Osisko, pursuant to which Osisko Mining Corporation
transferred to Osisko all of its entire legal and beneficial right, title and
interest in and to the OMC Assets. 
“OMC Liabilities” means all of the liabilities of Osisko
Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation) and its affiliates,
contingent or otherwise, which pertain to the OMC Assets but excluding any
liability or obligation with respect to taxes for periods prior to June 16,
2014, the effective date of the Agnico-Yamana Arrangement. 
“OMC Share” means the common shares in the capital of
Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation). 
“OP” means open pit. 
“OPEX” means operating expenses. 
“Opinaca” means Les Mines Opinaca Ltée.
“Orion Acquisition Agreement” means the Acquisition
Agreement dated June 4, 2017 among Osisko and the Orion Parties, including all
schedules attached thereto. 
"Orion Parties" means, collectively, Orion Mine Finance
(Master) Fund I LP, Orion Mine Finance (Master) Fund I-A LP, Orion Stream I,
Orion Stream II, Orion Co-Investments IV LP, 8248567 Canada Limited and Lynx
Metals Limited.
“Orion Private Placement” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “Description of Business -Business Combination with Orion Mine
Finance Group”. 
“Orion Purchase Price” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “Description of Business - Business Combination with Orion Mine
Finance Group”. 
13

“Orion Stream I” means Orion Stream I (Stream) LLC (now
OBL). 
“Orion Stream II” means Orion Stream II (now OBL). 
“Orion Transaction” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “Description of Business - Business Combination with Orion Mine Finance
Group”. 
“Osisko” or “Corporation” means Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd, a corporation existing under the QBCA, and all successors
thereto. 
“Osisko Board” means the board of directors of Osisko,
as the same is constituted from time to time. 
“Osisko DSUs” means Osisko’s Deferred Share Units. 
“Osisko Exploration James Bay” or “MergeCo” means Osisko Exploration James Bay Inc., the
corporation formed by the amalgamation of Virginia with SubCo under the CBCA. 
“Osisko Metals” means Osisko Metals Incorporated. 
“Osisko Mining” means Osisko Mining Inc. (formerly
named, prior to June 14, 2016, Oban Mining Corporation). 
“Osisko Mining Offering” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - Osisko Mining
Inc. and NioGold Mining Corporation”. 
“Osisko Mining Private Placement” has the meaning
ascribed under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 -
Osisko Mining Inc.”. 
“Osisko Mining Shares” means the common shares in the
capital of Osisko Mining. 
“Osisko Mining SRs” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - Osisko Mining Inc.
and NioGold Mining Corporation”. 
“Osisko Mining Warrants” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - Osisko Mining
Inc. and NioGold Mining Corporation”. 
“Osisko Options” means the outstanding options to
purchase Osisko Shares granted under Osisko Stock Option Plan or otherwise
granted by Osisko. 
“Osisko Preferred Shares” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “Description of Capital Structure - Osisko Preferred Shares”. 
“Osisko RSUs” means Osisko’s Restricted Share Units.

“Osisko Shareholders” means the holders of Osisko
Shares. 
“Osisko Shares” means common shares in the capital of
Osisko. 
“Osisko Stock Option Plan” means the stock option plan
of Osisko adopted by the Osisko Board on April 30, 2014, approved on May 30,
2014 by the former OMC Shareholders, further ratified by the Osisko Board on
June 30, 2014 and amended by the Osisko Board on May 22, 2015. 
“oz” means ounce.
“Partners” means Agnico and Yamana. 
“Pb” is the chemical symbol for lead. 
“PEA” means preliminary economic assessment.
14

“Per Carat Cash Price” means the amount obtained by
multiplying (a) US$50 (subject to an increase of 1% annually after three years
of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds) by (b) an
amount equal to 20% of the weight in carats in the Subject Diamond. 
“PFIC” has the meaning ascribed under the heading
“Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. 
“PK” means processed kimberlite. 
“PKC” means processed kimberlite containment. 
“PMD” means potential mineral deposit. 
“Pretium Exploration” means Pretium Exploration Inc.

“Pretium Resources” means Pretium Resources Inc. 
“Purchase Right” means the right of Pretium Exploration
to purchase the stream obligation under the Brucejack Stream Agreement. 
“QA/QC” means quality assurance and quality control.

“QBCA” means the Business Corporations Act
(Québec) and the regulations made thereunder. 
“qualified person” has the meaning ascribed in NI
43-101. 
“RACS” means remote avalanche control system.
 “RC” means reverse circulation. 
“Refined Precious Metals” means refined gold and refined
silver produced at the Brucejack Mine. 
“Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate” means the
updated mineral resource estimate documented in the technical report entitled
“2015 Mineral Resource Update for the Renard Diamond Project, Québec, Canada”
with an effective date of September 24, 2015. 
“Renard Buyers” means one or more of Orion Steam I’s
designated affiliates and/or respective limited partners or investors.

“Renard Closure Plan” means the rehabilitation
plan for the Renard Diamond Mine. 
“Renard Commencement of Commercial Production” means the
first day of the month immediately following the month in which the Renard
Project’s processing plant first processes ore at an average rate of 3,550.7
tons per day. 
“Renard Deposit” means US$250 million.
“Renard Kimberlite Pipes” means the kimberlites known as
Renard 1, 2, 3, 4, 65, 7, 8, 9 and 10 located on the Foxtrot Property. 
“Renard Diamond Mine” means the diamond mine located in
the James Bay region of north-central Québec operated by Stornoway. 
“Renard Stream” means the 9.6% diamond stream on the
Renard Diamond Mine. 
“Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of
Diamonds” means the streaming agreement for the forward sale of diamonds
dated July 8, 2014 and amended on March 30, 2015 among FCDC, a wholly owned
subsidiary of SDCI, Orion Stream I and the Renard Buyers. 
15

“Renard Technical Report” has the meaning ascribed under
“Schedule C - Technical Information Underlying the Renard Diamond Mine”. 
“Replacement Osisko Options” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 - Closing of
Virginia Arrangement”. 
“Ressources Québec” means Ressources Québec inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Investissement Québec. 
“ROM” means run-of-mine.
“RQ Debenture” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2016 - $50 Million Financing
with Ressources Québec inc.”. 
“RQ Subscription Agreement” means the subscription
agreement dated February 12, 2016 between Osisko and Ressources Québec providing
for the issuance of the RQ Debenture. 
“SDCI” means Stornoway Diamonds (Canada) Inc.
“SEC” means the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission. 
“SEDAR” means the System for Electronic Document
Analysis and Retrieval. 
“Silver Standard” means Silver Standard Resources Inc.

“SOX” means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
“Snowden” means Snowden Mining Industry Consultants Inc.

“Special Warrants” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 - $200 Million Bought
Deal Private Placement”. 
“SRC” means Saskatchewan Research Council Geoanalytical
Laboratories. 
“Stornoway” means Stornoway Diamond Corporation or, if
the context requires, its wholly owned subsidiary, SDCI. 
“SubCo” means 9081798 Canada Inc.
“Subject Diamonds” means (a) until the Renard Buyers
have been delivered six million carats of diamonds, all run of mine diamonds
derived from the Renard Diamond Mine, and (b) after such amount of carats are
delivered to the Renard Buyers, all run of mine diamonds derived from the
life-of-mine kimberlites. 
“Subject Diamond Interest” has the meaning ascribed to
such term in “Material Mineral Projects - The Renard Stream”. 
“SW Warrants” has the meaning ascribed under the heading
“General Development of Osisko’s Business -2015 - $200 Million Bought Deal
Private Placement”. 
“t” means tonne.
“Taseko” means Taseko Mines Limited.
“Taseko Warrants” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Acquisition of Silver
Stream on Taseko Mines Limited’s Gibraltar copper mine”. 
“Teck” means collectively Teck Resources Limited and its
subsidiary Teck Metals Ltd. 
“TitheCo” or “Orion TitheCo Limited” means Orion
TitheCo Limited (now OBL). 
16

“TBMPL” means Thunder Bay Mineral Processing
Laboratory.
“TFFE” means target for further exploration.
“tpd” means tonnes per day.
“Triggering Event” means a change of control or transfer
of substantially all assets of Pretium Resources, Pretium Exploration or any
other Pretium entity. 
“Triggering Event Amount” means the greater of the
following amounts (a) 13.6% of consideration received as a result of such
Triggering Event which is attributable to the Brucejack project, and (b) an
amount equal to the product of $150 million and (1.15)D/365, where “D” is the
number of days from the date of the Brucejack Stream Agreement to the date of
completion of such Triggering Event. 
“TSX” means Toronto Stock Exchange.
“U.S. Exchange Act” means the U.S. Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.
“V” means volts.
“Valley of the Kings” has the meaning ascribed to such
term in Schedule E - Technical Information Underlying the Brucejack Mine”. 
“Valuation Samples” means the parcels of diamonds
recovered during the 2007 bulk sampling program from the Renard 2, 3 and 4
kimberlite pipes. 
“Vezza Purchase Price” has the meaning ascribed under
the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 - Acquisition of
the Vezza Royalties”. 
“VGM” means Virginia Gold Mines Inc.
“Victoria” means Victoria Gold Corp.
“Victoria Financing” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition of a gold
royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”. 
“Victoria Private Placement” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition
of a gold royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”.

“Victoria Term Sheet” has the meaning ascribed under the
heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2018 - Acquisition of a gold
royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s Eagle Gold Project in Canada”. 
“Virginia” means Virginia Mines Inc.
“Virginia Arrangement” has the meaning ascribed
under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 - Closing of
Virginia Arrangement”. 
“Virginia Arrangement Agreement” means the arrangement
agreement dated November 16, 2015 between Osisko, Virginia Mines Inc. (before
its amalgamation to become “Osisko Exploration James Bay Inc.”) and 9081798
Canada Inc. 
“Virginia Arrangement Effective Date” has the meaning
ascribed under the heading “General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2015 –
Closing of Virginia Arrangement”. 
“Virginia Options” means the outstanding options to
purchase Virginia Shares granted under the Virginia stock option plan. 
17

“Virginia Plan of Arrangement” means the plan of
arrangement under Section 192 of the CBCA made in accordance with the Virginia
Arrangement Agreement. 
“Virginia Shareholders” means the holders of Virginia
Shares. 
“Virginia Shares” means common shares in the capital of
Virginia. 
“WWW IDC” means WWW International Diamond Consultants
Ltd. 
“Yamana” means Yamana Gold Inc.
“Zn” is the chemical symbol for zinc.
18

CORPORATE STRUCTURE
Name, Address and Incorporation
Osisko was incorporated on April 29, 2014 under the name
“Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd / Redevances Aurifères Osisko Ltée” pursuant to the
QBCA, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian
Malartic Corporation). On January 1, 2017, Osisko and its wholly-owned
subsidiary Osisko Exploration James Bay amalgamated under the name “Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd / Redevances Aurifères Osisko Ltée”. 
The Osisko Shares are listed on the TSX and on the NYSE under
the symbol “OR”. 
Warrants of Osisko are listed on the TSX under the symbols
OR.WT (exercise price: $36.50 / expiry date: March 5, 2022) and OR.WT.A
(exercise price: $19.08 / expiry date: February 25, 2019). 
The Debentures are listed on the TSX under the symbol “OR.DB”
(conversion price $22.89 per Osisko Share and conversion rate of 43.6872 Osisko
Shares per $1,000 principal amount of Debentures).
As of the date of this Annual Information Form, Osisko is a
reporting issuer in British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario,
Québec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland.
Osisko is also a reporting issuer in the United States. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montreal, Québec H3B 2S2. 
Intercorporate Relationships
As of December 31, 2017, Osisko’s only material subsidiary is
Osisko Bermuda Limited, acquired in connection with the Orion Transaction (see
“General Development of Osisko’s Business - 2017 - Orion Transaction”). 

 

 
 (1) 
 
 Osisko and its subsidiaries have additional interests in
 other subsidiaries that do not meet the materiality thresholds for
 disclosure set out in Form 51-102F2 of the Canadian Securities
 Administrators.
19

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Description of the Business
Osisko is focused on acquiring and managing precious metal and
other high-quality royalties, streams and other interests in Canada and
worldwide.
Osisko’s cornerstone assets include:

 
 
 (a) 
 
 a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic
 Properties;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 a sliding scale 2.0% - 3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore
 Mine;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 a 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard Diamond
 Mine;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 a 4% gold and silver stream on the Brucejack Mine;
 and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 a 100% silver stream on the Mantos Blancos
 Mine.
Osisko also owns a portfolio of royalties, streams, offtakes,
options on royalty or stream financings and exclusive rights to participate in
future royalty or stream financings on various projects, mainly in Canada. In
addition, Osisko invests in equities of exploration, development and royalty
companies. 
Business Model and Strategy
Osisko’s objective is to maximize returns for its shareholders
by growing its asset base, both organically and through accretive acquisitions
of precious metal and other high-quality royalties, streams and other interests,
and by returning capital to its shareholders by dividend payments. Osisko
believes it can achieve this by putting its team’s strong technical expertise to
work seeking out high margin growth opportunities that provide exposure to the
upside of commodity prices and optionality of mineral reserve growth and new
discoveries.
Osisko’s main focus is on high quality gold assets located in
favourable jurisdictions and operated by established mining companies, as these
assets are expected to support a premium valuation in the marketplace. Osisko
will also evaluate opportunities in other commodities and jurisdictions.
Given that a core aspect of Osisko’s business is the ability to
compete for investment opportunities, Osisko plans to maintain a strong balance
sheet and ability to deploy capital.
Osisko may also invest or maintain investments in gold bullion
as part of its overall treasury management, through the acquisition of gold
bullion on the market or through holding in-kind royalties received. 
Highlights - 2017

 
 
 • 
 
 Record GEOs 1 earned of 58,933 (54%
 increase compared to 2016); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Record revenues from royalties and streams of $93.8
 million ($213.2 million including offtakes) (50% increase compared to
 2016; 240% increase including offtakes); 
_____________________

 
 1 
 
 GEOs are calculated on a quarterly basis and include
 royalties, streams and offtakes. Silver earned from royalty and stream
 agreements was converted to gold equivalent ounces by multiplying the
 silver ounces by the average silver price for the period and dividing by
 the average gold price for the period. Diamonds, other metals and cash
 royalties were converted into gold equivalent ounces by dividing the
 associated revenue by the average gold price for the period. Offtake
 agreements were converted using the financial settlement equivalent
 divided by the average gold price for the period.
20

 
 
 • 
 
 Net cash flows provided by operating activities of
 $48.7 million (compared to $53.4
 million in 2016); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Net loss attributable to Osisko's shareholders
 of $42.5
 million, $0.33 per basic share (compared to net earnings of $42.1
 million, $0.40 per basic share in 2016), reflecting the impairment charge
 of $89 million on the Éléonore royalty interest ($65.4 million, net of
 income taxes); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Adjusted earnings 2 of $22.7 million, $0.18
 per basic share2 (compared to $34.2 million, $0.33 per basic
 share in 2016); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Proceeds of $71.1 million on sale of investments,
 generating a gain 3 of $35.8 million, based on the cash
 cost3 of the investments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of a precious metals portfolio of assets from
 the Orion Parties for $1.1 billion consisting of 74 royalties, streams and
 precious metal offtakes, including a 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard
 Diamond Mine and a 4% gold and silver stream on the Brucejack Mine, both
 of which are new mines in Canada, in addition to a 100% silver stream on
 the Mantos Blancos Mine in Chile; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of a US$33 million ($44.3 million) silver
 stream from Taseko; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of a US$55 million ($69.8 million) gold
 stream from Aquila by OBL; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of an additional 0.75% NSR royalty on the
 Cariboo gold project from Barkerville for cash consideration of $12.5
 million, which increased the NSR royalty held by Osisko on the Cariboo
 gold project to a total of 2.25% NSR; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Completed a bought deal offering of convertible senior
 unsecured debentures of $300 million; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Increased the revolving credit facility to $350 million
 (with a potential accordion of up to $100 million); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Declaration of quarterly dividends totalling $0.18 per
 common share for 2017. 
Highlights - Subsequent to December 31, 2017 

 
 
 • 
 
 Delivered the shares of AuRico Metals Inc. to Centerra
 Gold Inc. for a $1.80 cash consideration per share and for proceeds of
 $25.5 million, generating a gain3 of $15.5 million, based on
 the cash cost3 of the shares. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Declared a quarterly dividend of $0.05 per common share
 payable on April 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of the close of
 business on March 30, 2018. 
Business Combination with Orion Mine Finance Group 
On July 31, 2017, Osisko acquired a precious metals portfolio
of assets from the Orion Parties consisting of 61 royalties, 6 streams and 7
precious metal offtakes for $1.1 billion (the “Orion Transaction”). The
final acquisition price was comprised of US$504.8 million ($630.1 million) in
cash consideration, which includes an estimate of US$4.2 million ($5.1 million)
adjustment for the acquired working capital, and 30,906,594 Osisko Shares (the
“Orion Purchase Price”). 
___________________

 
 2 
 
 “Adjusted earnings” and “Adjusted earnings per basic
 share” are non- IFRS financial performance measures which have no standard
 definition under IFRS.
 
 3 
 
 The cash cost of an investment is a non-IFRS measure
 representing the cash paid on the acquisition of an investment. The gain
 or the loss is calculated by subtracting the cash acquisition cost from
 the cash proceeds on the sale of an investment.
21 

This combination resulted in Osisko holding a total of 131
royalties, streams and offtakes, including 16 revenue-generating assets. Through
the Orion Transaction, Osisko acquired a 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard
Diamond Mine and a 4% gold and silver stream on the Brucejack Mine, both of
which are new mines in Canada, in addition to a 100% silver stream on the Mantos
Blancos Mine in Chile. Certain assets are held through an international
wholly-owned subsidiary which was renamed Osisko Bermuda Limited. The Brucejack
Stream is subject to certain buyback rights held by Pretium Resources which
could result in the stream being repurchased on December 31, 2018 and other
specific dates. 
As part of the Orion Transaction, CDP Investissements Inc., an
affiliate of CDPQ, and the Fonds FTQ subscribed for $200 million and $75 million
in Osisko Shares, respectively, as part of a concurrent private placement (the
“Orion Private Placement”) to fund a portion of the cash consideration
and support the Orion Transaction. A total of 18,887,363 Osisko Shares were
issued at a price of $14.56 per share under the Orion Private Placement. The
Orion Private Placement was subject to a 7% capital commitment payment payable
partially in shares (2%, representing 385,457 Osisko Shares) and in cash (5%,
representing $13.8 million). 
Osisko also drew US$118 million ($147.3 million) under its
revolving credit facility, settled the foreign exchange forward contracts by
disbursing $275 million to acquire US$204 million and paid US$182.8 million
($228.9 million) from Osisko’s cash and cash equivalents balance. 
On closing of the Orion Transaction, Mr. Oskar Lewnowski,
founder and Chief Investment Officer of Orion Resource Partners, has been
appointed to the Osisko Board. 
Cornerstone Assets
Canadian Malartic (Agnico Eagles Mines Limited and Yamana
Gold Inc.) 
One of Osisko’s cornerstone assets is a 5% NSR royalty on the
Canadian Malartic Properties located in Malartic, Québec and operated by
Canadian Malartic GP, created by Yamana and Agnico. The Canadian Malartic
Properties include the Canadian Malartic mine, which was constructed and
developed by Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation) and
commenced production in April 2011. Canadian Malartic is Canada’s largest
producing gold mine. 
In February 2018, initial inferred mineral resources were
declared on the East Malartic deposit. The East Malartic deposit lies on the
Canadian Malartic mine property close to the Odyssey zone and has inferred
mineral resources of 2.4 million ounces of gold (38.0 million tonnes grading
2.02 g/t gold) at underground depths above the 1,000 metre elevation. 
Osisko also holds a 3% NSR royalty on the Odyssey North zone
and a 5% NSR royalty on the Odyssey South zone. In February 2018, the Partners
declared initial inferred mineral resources at Odyssey, estimated at 1,676,000
ounces of gold (22.4 million tonnes grading 2.32 grams per tonne gold). 
Update on operations
On February 14, 2018, Agnico announced that Canadian Malartic
Corporation exceeded its targets for 2017 and produced 633,462 ounces of gold.

The Barnat extension project continues to progress on schedule
and on budget. Since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2017, the following
activities were completed: an acoustic screen (noise barrier) for the road
deviation was put in place, a temporary bridge was constructed and the new road
bed foundation is being prepared. Tree cutting has been completed over the
Barnat deposit and overburden stripping is ongoing. Production activities at
Barnat are scheduled to begin in late 2019. 
At the Canadian Malartic mine, exploration programs will be
focused in 2018 on the Odyssey and East Malartic deposits, drilling 140,000
metres, to evaluate a number of near pit/underground targets. In addition,permitting activities are underway for an exploration ramp to
provide underground access to the shallower portions of the Odyssey South and
East Malartic deposits. Development of the ramp, which will provide access for
underground drilling, and collection of a bulk sample, is expected to begin in
late 2018. The goal of the underground development program is to provide higher
grade feed to the Canadian Malartic mill and extend the current mine life. 
22

On February 14, 2018, Agnico also released its guidance for
 gold production at the Canadian Malartic mine: 650,000 ounces in 2018 and 2019
and 690,000 ounces in 2020. 
Éléonore (Goldcorp Inc.)
Through the acquisition of Virginia in 2015, Osisko owns a
sliding scale 2.0% to 3.5% NSR royalty in the Éléonore Mine located in the
Province of Québec and operated by Goldcorp. Commercial production for the
Éléonore Mine was declared on April 1, 2015. The current NSR royalty is at 2.2%
. 
Update on operations
On February 14, 2018, Goldcorp announced that the Éléonore Mine
had produced 305,000 ounces of gold in 2017. During the three-month period ended
December 31, 2017, a total of 460,000 tonnes of ore were milled, at an average
mill head grade of 6.32 grams per tonne (recovery rate of 92%), compared to
399,000 tonnes of ore milled during the three-month period ended December 31,
2016 at a mill head grade of 5.50 grams per tonne. 
On January 16, 2018, as part of their Investor Day update,
Goldcorp presented its outlook activities of the Éléonore Mine. The new plan
outlined a long-term production profile of the property to approximately 360,000
ounces of gold in 2018 and 400,000 ounces of gold thereafter. 
On October 25, 2017, Goldcorp indicated that proven and
probable gold mineral reserves as of September 30, 2017 totaled 3.8 million gold
ounces, compared to 4.6 million gold ounces as of June 30, 2016. Mine depletion
and resource model variance accounted for a decrease of 0.3 million ounces and
0.2 million ounces, respectively, while engineering changes resulted in the
reclassification of 0.3 million ounces into the measured and indicated mineral
resource category. 
Impairment of Éléonore Royalty Interest
Gold production for the year ended December 31, 2017 was higher
than the prior years at 305,000 ounces compared to 274,000 ounces in 2016 and
268,000 ounces in 2015 due to increase in grade and mined tonnes as Éléonore
continued its ramp up to optimized production levels. For 2018, the operator’s
guidance is at 360,000 ounces. 
Gold ounces earned from the Éléonore Royalty

 
 
 2015(1) 
 
 2016 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 2018 Guidance 
 
 
 2019+ Guidance
 (2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 402 
 
 6,568 
 
 
 6,390 
 
 
 7,920 
 
 
 8,800 
 

 
 (1) 
 
 Osisko started receiving royalties in December 2015 only
 due to the royalty advance payment to Virginia.
 
 (2) 
 
 Based on operator’s guidance of 400,000 sustainable
 annual gold production. As per the sliding scale schedule of up to 3.5%,
 Osisko could potentially receive up to 14,000 ounces annually once 8
 million ounces have been produced.
The operator reviewed its guidance on long-term annual gold
production to 400,000 ounces, which is significantly lower compared to the
design capacity of 600,000 ounces. This was considered by Osisko an indicator of
impairment among other facts and circumstances and, accordingly, management
performed an impairment assessment as at December 31, 2017. 
23

As a result, Osisko recorded an impairment charge of $89.0
million ($65.4 million net of income taxes) on the Éléonore Royalty for the year
ended December 31, 2017. The Éléonore Royalty was written down to its estimated
recoverable value, which was determined by the fair value less cost of disposal
using a discounted cash-flows approach. 
Renard (Stornoway Diamond Corporation)
The Renard Diamond Mine is operated by Stornoway and is
Québec’s first and Canada’s sixth producing diamond mine. It is located
approximately 250 kilometres north of the Cree community of Mistissini and 350
kilometres north of Chibougamau in the James Bay region of north-central Québec.
Construction on the mine commenced on July 10, 2014, and commercial production
was declared on January 1, 2017. The term of the Renard streaming for the
forward sale of diamonds is until July 8, 2054, with automatic renewals for
additional terms of 10 years each, subject to the Renard Buyers’ right to
terminate. Under the terms of the Renard streaming agreement, Osisko is entitled
to 9.6% of the Renard Diamond Mine production in exchange for payments of US$50
per carat, subject to an increase of 1% annually after January 1, 2020. 
Update on operations
On January 11, 2018, Stornoway announced that during the fourth
quarter, 518,817 tonnes of ore were processed compared to a plan of 540,000
tonnes resulting in diamond production of 398,267 carats compared to a plan of
415,940 carats (96% and 96% of plan respectively). Recovered grade was 77 cpht,
in line with the plan. Carat production was lower than planned due to the
unscheduled batch processing of lower grade Renard 65 ore in November for the
purpose of obtaining a valuation sample of Renard 65 diamonds. For the full year
2017, 1.96 million tonnes were processed with diamond production of 1.64 million
carats at an attributable grade of 84 cpht. This compares to 2017 guidance of
2.00 million tonnes for 1.69 million carats at 85 cpht (97%, 98% and 99% of plan
respectively). 
The average processing rate of the plant during the fourth
quarter, the second quarter of full production following completion of the
project ramp-up, was 6,014 tonnes per day compared to the nameplate capacity of
the plant of 6,000 tonnes per day. 
Diamond recoveries at the Renard Diamond Mine through 2017 were
impacted by high levels of diamond breakage, and a higher than expected recovery
of smaller diamonds than planned. In early August, the Stornoway board of
directors approved an extraordinary capital budget of $22 million for a program
of plant improvements aimed at improving the quality profile of the Renard
production. At the center of this plan is the introduction of an ore-waste
sorting circuit, rated at 7,000 tonnes per day and expandable, designed to
extract waste rock in the +30mm - 200mm size range immediately prior to its
introduction to the secondary cone crusher. 
In 2018, Stornoway expects to produce 1.6 million carats from
the processing of 2.5 million tonnes of ore at an average grade 65 cpht. 
Mantos Blancos (Mantos Copper S.A.)
Mantos is a private mining company focused on the extraction
and sale of copper. Mantos owns and operates the Mantos Blancos Mine and the
Mantoverde project, located in the Antofagasta and Atacama regions in northern
Chile. The Mantos Stream Agreement is for the life of mine and is based on 100%
of the payable silver from the Mantos Blancos Mine until 19,300,000 ounces have
been delivered, after which the stream percentage will be 30%. The purchase
price for silver under the Mantos Stream Agreement is 25% of the average silver
market price for each ounce of refined silver sold and delivered and/or credited
by Mantos to OBL. Mantos may elect to reduce the amount of refined silver to be
delivered and sold to OBL by 50% in 2018, 2019 or 2020, provided that Mantos has
delivered no less than 1.99 million ounces of silver to OBL under the Mantos
Stream Agreement in which case Mantos shall make a cash payment of US$70 million
to OBL. 
24

OBL has a right of first refusal in respect of a financing by
Mantos of any royalty, stream, participation or production interest in gold at
the Mantos Blancos Mine or the Mantoverde mine prior to June 30, 2018. 
Update on operations
Production of silver at the Mantos Blancos Mine and
concentrator plant was better than expected at 148,436 ounces of payable silver
for the fourth quarter of 2017 and 557,126 ounces of payable silver for year
ended December 31, 2017. This was the result of changes in the mine plan that
have resulted in phases being mined that have a higher silver grade. 
Work on the Mantos Blancos concentrator debottlenecking project
is progressing according to the plan and the feasibility study being developed
by Hatch Ltd. is targeted to be completed in March 2018. The Mantos Blancos
concentrator debottlenecking project is expected to increase processing capacity
at the concentrator by approximately 70%. The key environmental permits have all
been received. 
Brucejack Stream (Pretium Resources Inc.)
Pretium Resources’ Brucejack Mine is located in northwestern
British Columbia, approximately 65 kilometres north of Stewart, British
Columbia. Pretium Resources declared commercial production at Brucejack on July
3, 2017. The Brucejack Stream Agreement has a delivery start date of January 1,
2020 and provides for an 8% gold and silver stream payable to the Brucejack
Stream Partners (4% attributable to OBL). The term of the Brucejack Stream is
the date on which Pretium Resources has sold to the Brucejack Stream Partners
7,067,000 ounces of gold and 26,297,000 ounces of silver, including deliveries
under the Brucejack Offtake Agreement, subject to certain buy-back and buy-down
rights held by Pretium Resources. 
The buy-back and buy-down rights held by Pretium Resources are
as follows (50% attributable to Osisko):

 
 Right 
 Description 
 Election date 
 Price 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy-back (2018) 
 Right to repurchase the entire stream 
 December 31, 2018 
 US$238.0 million ($298.6 million) 
 
 Buy-down (2018) 
 Right to reduce the stream percentage from 8%
 to 3% 
 December 31, 2018 
 US$150.0 million ($188.2 million) 
 
 Buy-back (2019) 
 Right to repurchase the entire stream 
 December 31, 2019 
 US$272 million ($341.2 million) 
 
 Buy-down (2019) 
 Right to reduce the stream percentage from 8%
 to 4% 
 December 31, 2019 
 US$150.0 million ($188.2 million)
 
The Brucejack Stream Agreement is subject to certain change of
control provisions. 
If Pretium Resources does not exercise the right to reduce or
repurchase the refined precious metals under the stream by December 31, 2019,
US$20 million will be payable by Pretium Resources (US$10 million attributable
to OBL) and an 8% stream (4% attributable to OBL) will become payable beginning
January 1, 2020, with ongoing transfer payments of US$400 per ounce of gold and
US$4.00 per ounce of silver. 
Update on operations
On March 8, 2018, Pretium Resources reported financial and
operating results for the fourth quarter and year end 2017. During the fourth
quarter of 2017, the Brucejack Mine produced 70,281 ounces of gold for a total
of 152,484 ounces for the first six months of production ramp-up. Gold recovery
rate averaged 95.8% for the quarter and 96.2% for the first six months of
production ramp-up respectively. The mill processed a total of 271,501 tonnes of
ore for the fourth quarter for an average of 2,951 tonnes per day and a total
of 532,763 tonnes of ore for an average of 2,895 tonnes per day
for the first six months of production ramp-up. 
25

As the ramp-up of mining into areas of higher definition
 drilling continues, steady state gold production is expected to be achieved in
 mid-to-late 2018. Gold production at Brucejack for the first half of 2018 is
 expected in the range of 150,000 ounces to 200,000 ounces, for total first year
 ramp-up gold production of 302,000 ounces to 352,000 ounces (July 1, 2017 to
 June 30, 2018). Grade reconciliation to the reserve model for the period from
 August 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 was approximately 75% to 80%. The
 achievement of steady state mining in areas with higher drill density and the
 grade control program in full operation will enable Pretium Resources to provide
further production guidance later in 2018. 
Summary of Principal Royalties, Streams, Offtakes and Other
Interests 

 
 Asset
 
 
 Operator 
 
 Interest 
 
 Commodities 
 
 Jurisdiction 
 Stage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Royalties 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Canadian Malartic(2) 
 
 Agnico/Yamana 
 
 5.0% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Éléonore 
 
 Goldcorp 
 
 2.0-3.5% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Island Gold(1) 
 
 Alamos Gold Inc. 
 
 1.38- 2.55% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hewfran Block (1) 
 
 Metanor Resources Inc. 
 
 1.7% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vezza 
 
 Nottaway 
 
 5% NSR & 40% NPI 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seabee* 
 
 SSR Mining Inc. 
 
 3% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bald Mtn. Alligator Ridge / Duke & Trapper* 
 
 Kinross Gold Corporation 
 
 1% / 4% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 USA 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Brauna* 
 
 Lipari Mineração 
 
 1% GRR 
 
 Diamond 
 
 Brazil 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kwale* 
 
 Base Resources Limited 
 
 1.5% GRR 
 
 Rutile, Ilmenite, zircon 
 
 Kenya 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pan* 
 
 Fiore Gold Ltd. 
 
 4% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 USA 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Casino* 
 
 Western Copper & Gold Corporation 
 
 2.75% NSR 
 
 Au, Ag, Cu 
 
 Canada 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ollachea* 
 
 Kuri Kullu / Minera IRL 
 
 1% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Peru 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 King Island* 
 
 King Island Scheelite Limited 
 
 1.5%GRR 
 
 Tungsten 
 
 Australia 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ambler* 
 
 NovaCopper US Inc. 
 
 1% NSR 
 
 Cu, Zn 
 
 USA 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rakkuri* 
 
 Hannans Reward Ltd. 
 
 1.5% NSR 
 
 Fe, Cu, Ag 
 
 Sweden 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lamaque(1) 
 
 Eldorado Gold Corp. 
 
 1.7%(6) NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cariboo 
 
 Barkerville 
 
 2.25% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Windfall Lake 
 
 Osisko Mining 
 
 1.5% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hermosa 
 
 Arizona Mining 
 
 1% NSR 
 
 Zn, Pb, Ag 
 
 USA 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pandora 
 
 Agnico/Yamana(2) 
 
 2% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Malartic – Odyssey North 
 
 Agnico/Yamana 
 
 3% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Malartic – Odyssey South 
 
 Agnico/Yamana 
 
 5% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copperwood 
 
 Highland 
 
 3% NSR (3) 
 
 Ag, Cu 
 
 USA 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 James Bay properties 
 
 Osisko Mining 
 
 1.5-3.5% NSR (4) 
 
 Au, Ag 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 James Bay properties 
 
 Osisko Mining 
 
 2.0% NSR (4)
 
 Other than Au, Ag 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bathurst Mining Camp properties 
 
 Osisko Metals 
 
 1% NSR 
 
 Zn and other metals 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Québec Genex projects 
 
 Osisko Metals 
 
 1% NSR 
 
 Zn and other metals 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spring Valley* 
 
 Waterton Global Resource Management 
 
 0.5% NSR 
 
 Au 
 
 USA 
 Exploration 
26

 
 Asset
 
 
 Operator 
 
 Interest 
 
 Commodities 
 
 Jurisdiction 
 Stage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Neita 
 
 Unigold Inc. 
 
 Option - 2% NSR ($2.0 million to exercise)
 
 
 Au 
 
 Dominican Republic 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 La Fortuna 
 
 Minera Alamos Inc. 
 
 Option - 4% NSR ($9.0 million to exercise)
 
 
 Au 
 
 Mexico 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Yellowknife City Gold 
 
 TerraX Minerals Inc. 
 
 Option - 3% NSR ($4.0 million to exercise)
 
 
 Au 
 
 Canada 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard* 
 
 Stornoway 
 
 9.6% 
 
 Diamond 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gibraltar 
 
 Taseko 
 
 100% 
 
 Ag 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mantos Blancos* 
 
 Mantos 
 
 100% 
 
 Ag 
 
 Chile 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Brucejack* 
 
 Pretium Resources 
 
 4% 
 
 Au, Ag 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sasa* 
 
 Central Asia Metals plc 
 
 100% 
 
 Ag 
 
 Macedonia 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amulsar* 
 
 Lydian International Ltd. 
 
 4.22% Au / 62.5% Ag 
 
 Au, Ag 
 
 Armenia 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Back Forty* 
 
 Aquila Resources Inc. 
 
 18.5% Au / 75% Ag 
 
 Au, Ag 
 
 USA 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Horne 5(5) 
 
 Falco 
 
 Stream or 1% NSR royalty 
 
 Au, Ag, Cu 
 
 Canada 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 White Pine North, Copperwood and Keweenaw 
 
 Highland 
 
 Option on stream (US$26.0 million to
 exercise) 
 
 Ag 
 
 USA 
 Exploration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Offtakes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Brucejack* 
 
 Pretium Resources 
 
 Offtake 
 
 Au, Ag 
 
 Canada 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Matilda* 
 
 Blackham Resources Limited 
 
 Offtake 
 
 Au 
 
 Australia 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Parral* 
 
 GoGold Resources Inc. 
 
 Offtake 
 
 Au 
 
 Mexico 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 San Ramon* 
 
 Red Eagle Mining Corp. 
 
 Offtake 
 
 Au 
 
 Colombia 
 Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amulsar* 
 
 Lydian International Ltd. 
 
 Offtake 
 
 Au, Ag 
 
 Armenia 
 Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Yenipazar* 
 
 Aldridge Minerals Inc. 
 
 Offtake 
 
 Au 
 
 Turkey 
 Development 
* Acquired through the Orion Transaction.

 
 
 (1) 
 
 After the sale of a 15% interest in the royalties
 acquired from Teck Resources Limited to CDPQ.
 
 
 (2) 
 
 In December 2017, Yamana announced that Agnico will be
 acquiring its 50% interest in the jointly owned exploration properties of
 Canadian Malartic Corporation except properties related to the Canadian
 Malartic mine. The transaction is expected to close in the beginning of
 2018, after which Agnico will become the sole owner of such exploration
 properties.
 
 
 (3) 
 
 3% NSR royalty on the Copperwood project. Upon closing of
 the acquisition of the White Pine project, Highland will grant Osisko a
 1.5% NSR royalty on all metals produced from the White Pine project, and
 Osisko’s royalty on Copperwood will be reduced to 1.5%.
 
 
 (4) 
 
 Effective October 4, 2016, Osisko entered into an earn-in
 agreement with Osisko Mining, which was amended in 2017 to create two
 earn-in agreements. The amendment was necessitated by the optioning, by
 Osisko Mining, of the Kan Project to Barrick. Under the first earn-in
 agreement, Osisko Mining may earn a 100% interest in 26 of Osisko’s
 exploration properties located in the James Bay area and Labrador Trough
 (excluding the Coulon copper-zinc project and four other exploration
 properties) upon completing expenditures of $26 million over a 7-year
 period; Osisko Mining may earn a first 50% interest upon completing
 expenditures totaling $15.6 million over a 4-year period. Under the second
 earn-in agreement, Osisko Mining may earn a 100% interest in the Kan
 property (comprised of the Kan and Fosse Au properties) upon completing
 expenditures totaling $6 million over a 7-year period, which represents
 the guaranteed expenditures to be incurred by Barrick, following an
 earn-in agreement signed between Osisko Mining and Barrick where Barrick
 committed to spend $15 million on the Kan property; Osisko Mining may earn
 a first 50% interest upon completing expenditures totaling $3.6 million
 over a 4-year period. Osisko will retain an escalating NSR royalty ranging
 from 1.5% to 3.5% on precious metals and a 2.0% NSR royalty on other
 metals and minerals produced from the 27 properties. New properties
 acquired by Osisko Mining in a designated area during the 7- year term
 will be subject to a royalty agreement in favour of Osisko with similar
 terms.
 
 
 (5) 
 
 In May 2016, Osisko entered into a financing agreement of
 $10 million with Falco, which will be applied against a stream deposit to
 be negotiated by October 31, 2017 or converted into a 1% NSR royalty on
 the Horne 5 project if no stream agreement is concluded. On November 29,
 2017, the maturity date of the loan was extended to May 31, 2018. In
 February 2018, Falco and Osisko agreed to amend the provision relating to
 payment of interests under the senior note issued by Falco by deferring
 the payment date of the interest payable on the principal amount of $10
 million to the earlier of (i) five (5) business days from the closing of a
 financing by Falco for minimum net proceeds of $40 million or (ii) March
 31, 2019, provided that no interest shall be payable prior to the maturity
 date of the senior note.
 
 
 (6) 
 
 Eldorado Gold Corp. has an option to buy-back 1% of the
 NSR royalty for $2 million.
27

Significant Producing Royalty and Stream Assets

 
Geographical Distribution of Royalty and Stream Assets

 
28

Portfolio of Investments
Osisko’s assets include a portfolio of shares of publicly
traded companies. Osisko invests, and intends to continue to invest, from time
to time in companies where it holds royalties, streams or other interests and in
various companies within the mining industry for investment purposes and with
the objective of improving its ability to acquire interests in exploration
assets, future royalties or revenue streams. In addition to investment
objectives, in some cases, Osisko may decide to take a more active role,
including providing management personnel, technical and/or administrative
support, as well as nominating individuals to the investee’s board of
directors.
Main Strategic Investments
Osisko Mining Inc. 
In August 2015, Osisko Mining acquired Eagle Hill Exploration
Corporation, Ryan Gold Corp. and Corona Gold Corporation to combine leadership,
treasuries and assets to form a new Canadian focused gold exploration and
development company. In 2015, Osisko invested $17.8 million in shares of Osisko
Mining and was granted a right to acquire a 1% NSR royalty on all properties
held by Osisko Mining at the date of the financing. The right was exercised in
October 2016 for $5 million and includes a 1% NSR royalty on the Windfall Lake
gold project (bringing the total NSR royalty on the Windfall Lake gold project
to 1.5%) . In 2016, Osisko entered into an earn-in agreement with Osisko Mining,
which was amended in 2017 to create two earn-in agreements, on properties held
by Osisko in the James Bay area. The amendment was necessitated by the optioning
of the Kan Project to Barrick. In 2016, Osisko invested $6.8 million in Osisko
Mining and in 2017, invested an additional $40.1 million. As at December 31,
2017, Osisko holds 32,302,034 common shares representing a 15.5% interest in
Osisko Mining. 
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.
Barkerville is focused on the development of its extensive land
package located in the historical Cariboo Mining District of central British
Columbia, Canada. In November 2015, Osisko and Barkerville entered into an
agreement for Osisko to acquire a 1.5% NSR royalty on the Cariboo Gold project
for cash consideration of $25 million. In April 2017, Osisko acquired an
additional 0.75% NSR royalty on the Cariboo gold project for cash consideration
of $12.5 million, increasing the total NSR royalty held by Osisko to 2.25% . The
grant of the additional royalty cancelled Osisko’s royalty acquisition right
which was granted pursuant to an investment agreement between Osisko and
Barkerville dated February 5, 2016. However, Osisko will retain a right of first
refusal relating to any gold stream offer received by Barkerville with respect
to the Cariboo gold project. In 2015 and 2016, Osisko acquired common shares of
Barkerville for $11 million and $8.2 million, respectively. In 2017, Osisko
invested an additional $52.1 million to acquire additional common shares. As at
December 31, 2017, Osisko holds 142,309,310 common shares representing a 32.7%
interest in Barkerville. 
Falco Resources Ltd.
Falco’s main asset is the Horne 5 gold project, for which a
positive feasibility study was released in October 2017. In 2015 and 2016,
Osisko increased its investment in Falco by acquiring Falco Shares for $2.4
million and $3.3 million, respectively. In addition, Osisko entered into a
financing agreement of $10 million with Falco in 2016, which will be applied
against a stream deposit to be negotiated by May 31, 2018 (the original maturity
date was November 30, 2017, which was subsequently extended to May 31, 2018) or
converted into a 1% NSR royalty on the Horne 5 project if no stream agreement is
concluded. In 2017, Osisko acquired additional Falco Shares for $4 million. In
February 2018, Falco and Osisko agreed to amend the provision relating to
payment of interests under the senior note issued by Falco by deferring the
payment date of the interest payable on the principal amount of $10 million to
the earlier of (i) five (5) business days from the closing of a financing by
Falco for minimum net proceeds of $40 million or (ii) March 31, 2019, provided
that no interest shall be payable prior to the maturity date of the senior note.
As at December 31, 2017, Osisko holds 23,927,005 Falco Shared representing a
12.7% interest in Falco. 
29

Dalradian Resources Inc.
On October 10, 2017, Osisko entered into a subscription
agreement with Dalradian pursuant to which Osisko made an investment of $28.3
million in Dalradian by way of a non-brokered private placement. As at December
31, 2017, Osisko holds 31,717,687 common shares representing an 8.9% interest in
Dalradian. The subscription agreement entered into with Dalradian contains
various covenants and rights, including among other things, a standstill,
participation rights to maintain Osisko’s pro rata interest in Dalradian and
rights to match other offers for project financing. 
Exploration and Evaluation Activities
As a result of the earn-in agreement with Osisko Mining, which
is described under Summary of Royalty, Stream and Offtake Interests
hereinabove, the exploration and evaluation activities have been significantly
reduced and were concentrated on the Coulon project (James Bay area). A 10,000
meter drilling program was completed on the Coulon project in 2017 and Coulon is
reviewing the economics of the property. In November 2017 the non-controlling
shareholders of Coulon, the subsidiary of Osisko holding the Coulon project,
exercised the option to convert their shares of Coulon for an amount
corresponding to 75% of the cost of their investment, representing $12.0
million. The amount was settled by the issuance of 772,810 Osisko Shares. As
such, Osisko is now the sole owner of the Coulon project. 
Human Resources
As of December 31, 2017, Osisko had 42 employees, the services
of 12 of which being mainly charged back to investee companies. 
Although Osisko has less than four (4) years of operations, it
benefits from the continued availability and commitment of its key management,
whose contributions to its immediate and future operations are of significant
importance. Furthermore, Osisko implemented a succession plan in order to
mitigate the risk of being dependent on such key management. From time to time,
Osisko may also need to identify and retain additional skilled management and
specialized technical personnel to efficiently operate its business. 
Material Mineral Projects
Osisko considers that the Canadian Malartic Royalty, the
Éléonore Royalty, the Renard Stream, the Brucejack Stream and the Mantos Blancos
Stream are currently its only material mineral projects for the purposes of NI
43-101.
Outlook
Osisko’s 2018 outlook on royalty, stream and precious metal
offtake interests is based on publicly available forecasts, in particular the
forecasts for the Canadian Malartic Mine published by Yamana and Agnico, for the
Éléonore Mine published by Goldcorp, for the Renard Diamond Mine published by
Stornoway and for the Brucejack Mine published by Pretium Resources. When
publicly available forecasts on properties are not available, Osisko obtains
internal forecasts from the operators, which is the case for the Mantos Blancos
Mine or uses management’s best estimate. 
Attributable gold equivalent ounces for 2018 are estimated
between 77,500 and 82,500. For the 2018 guidance, silver and cash royalties have
been converted to GEOs using commodity prices of US$1,300 per ounce of gold,
US$18 per ounce of silver and US$110 per carat for diamonds from the Renard
Diamond Mine and an exchange rate (US$/C$) of 1.25. 
30

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF OSISKO’S BUSINESS
2018
Acquisition of a gold royalty on Victoria Gold Corp.’s
Eagle Gold Project in Canada 
On March 8, 2018, Osisko announced that it has signed a term
sheet (the “Victoria Term Sheet”) with Victoria to acquire a 5% NSR
royalty (the “Eagle Royalty”) for $98 million (the “Eagle Royalty
Purchase”) on the Dublin Gulch property which hosts the Eagle Gold project
(“Eagle Project”) located in Yukon, Canada. 
The Eagle Project currently hosts 2.7 million ounces in proven
and probable gold reserves from 123 million tonnes of ore with a grade of 0.67
grams of gold per tonne, as outlined in a NI 43-101 feasibility study, and when
in production is expected to produce approximately 200,000 ounces of gold
annually at an operating cost of approximately US$550 per ounce. The Eagle
Project is permitted for construction and operations. 
As part of the Victoria Term Sheet, Osisko has also agreed to
purchase on a private placement basis, 100,000,000 common shares of Victoria at
a price of $0.50 per common share (the “Victoria Private Placement”), for
total financing by Osisko of $148 million including the Victoria Royalty
Purchase (the “Victoria Financing”). 
In connection with the Victoria Financing, Victoria has entered
into documentation with Orion Mine Finance (“Orion”) and Caterpillar
Financial Services Limited with respect to a construction financing package
totaling approximately $505 million in aggregate (including the Victoria
Financing) that is expected to fully fund the development of the Eagle Project
through to commercial production. 
As part of the Eagle Royalty Purchase, Osisko will advance $98
million, in exchange for a 5% NSR royalty on all metals and minerals produced
from the Eagle Property, which includes the Eagle and Olive deposits, until an
aggregate of 97,500 ounces of refined gold have been delivered to Osisko, and a
3% NSR royalty thereafter. 
The funding of the Eagle Royalty Purchase is expected to be
carried out in two tranches, with the first tranche of $49 million to be funded
upon the satisfaction of certain conditions including (but not limited to) the
execution by Victoria and Orion of definitive credit agreements in respect of
the Orion debt facilities and the occurrence of the closing date under such
facilities, and the second tranche of $49 million to be funded pro rata to
drawdowns under the subordinated debt component of the Orion debt facilities.

The proceeds of the Victoria Private Placement will be used
primarily for the purpose of advancing construction of the Eagle Project and for
working capital purposes. Following the Victoria Private Placement, Osisko
expects to have ownership over approximately 121 million common shares of
Victoria, representing approximately 15.7% of the issued and outstanding
Victoria common shares. Additionally, Osisko will have a right to nominate one
member to Victoria’s board of directors.
Closing of the transaction is subject to execution of
definitive documentation, satisfaction of conditions precedent and regulatory
approvals. 
2017
Normal Course Issuer Bid Program
On December 6, 2017, following TSX approval, Osisko announced
the renewal of a normal course issuer bid to purchase for cancellation, from
time to time, up to 10% of the public float of Osisko over a 12-month period
(the “NCIB Program”). 
31

Repurchases under the NCIB Program may commence on December 11,
2017 and will terminate on December 10, 2018, or on such earlier date as the
NCIB Program is complete. Purchases of Osisko Shares under the NCIB Program will
be made in Canada through the facilities of the TSX in accordance with its
rules. Daily purchases will be limited to 95,695 Osisko Shares, other than block
purchase exemptions, representing 25% of the average daily trading volume of the
Osisko Shares on the TSX for the six-month period ended November 30, 2017, being
382,781 Osisko Shares. The price that Osisko may pay for Osisko Shares purchased
under the NCIB Program will be the prevailing market price at the time of
purchase and any Osisko Shares purchased by Osisko will be cancelled. 
As of February 28, 2018, Osisko has purchased and cancelled
513,990 Osisko Shares under the NCIB Program. 
Under the prior NCIB program which ended on October 23, 2017,
Osisko purchased 150,000 Osisko Shares at a weighted average price of $12.15 per
Osisko Share through the facilities of the TSX. 
Increase of Credit Facility to $350
Million
On November 14, 2017, Osisko announced that it has
amended its revolving credit facility, increasing the amount from $150 million
to $350 million, with an additional uncommitted accordion of up to $100 million,
for a total availability of up to $450 million (the “2017 Credit Agreement”). National Bank of Canada
continues to act as administrative agent and as lender, and the syndicate of
financial institutions includes Bank of Montreal, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Royal Bank of Canada, The Toronto-Dominion
Bank and Export Development Canada. National Bank Financial Inc. acted as sole
lead arranger and bookrunner. The facility is secured by Osisko’s assets and has
an initial term of four (4) years. 
Acquisition of a Gold Stream on Aquila Resources Inc.’s
Back Forty Project in Michigan, USA 
On November 9, 2017, Osisko announced that OBL agreed to
acquire a gold stream with reference to the future gold produced from the Back
Forty property (the “Back Forty Project”) located in Michigan, USA from
Aquila. OBL will make a staged upfront cash deposit to Aquila of up to US$55
million for the gold stream, and will make ongoing payments equal to 30% of the
spot price of gold, to a maximum of US$600 per ounce. In addition to the gold
stream, OBL has agreed to purchase units in the amount of US$10 million as part
of a concurrent private placement with Aquila. OBL owns a 75% stream on all
silver produced on the Back Forty Project, which was acquired in July 2017
through the acquisition of the Orion Mine Finance portfolio. 
Pursuant to a gold purchase agreement dated November 27, 2017
between OBL and Aquila, OBL has purchased a gold stream equivalent to 18.5% of
the refined gold from the Back Forty Project until 105,000 ounces of gold have
been delivered (the “Back Forty Threshold Stream”), and 9.25% of
the refined gold for the remaining life-of-mine (the “Back Forty Tail
Stream”). Payable gold under the stream will be subject to minimum
payability rates based on the product produced. As consideration for the gold
stream, OBL will pay to Aquila a staged upfront cash deposit of up to US$55
million (the “Back Forty Deposit”) plus ongoing payments equal to
30% of the spot price of gold on the day of delivery, to a maximum of US$600 per
ounce.
The Back Forty Deposit will be paid in four installments, as
follows: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 US$7.5 million (paid on closing);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 US$7.5 million payable upon receipt by Aquila of all
 material permits required for the development and operation of the Back
 Forty Project, and receipt of a positive feasibility study;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 US$10 million payable following a positive construction
 decision for the Back Forty Project; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 US$30 million payable upon the first drawdown of an
 appropriate project debt finance facility (the “Back Forty Fourth
 Deposit”), subject to the Back Forty CoC
Provision.
32

In the event of a change of control of Aquila prior to the
advancement of the Back Forty Fourth Deposit, the person or entity acquiring
control over the Back Forty Project may elect to forego the Back Forty Fourth
Deposit, in which case the Back Forty Threshold Stream and Back Forty Tail
Stream will reduce to 9.5% and 4.75%, respectively (the “Back Forty
CoC Provision”). All other terms and conditions of the gold stream will
remain unchanged. 
The gold stream will be secured by a first priority lien on the
Back Forty Project and all assets of Aquila.
As part of the transaction, OBL has purchased US$10 million of
units in Aquila at a price of $0.26 per unit (the “Aquila Private
Placement”). Each unit is comprised of one (1) common share and one quarter
of one common share purchase warrant, with each full warrant entitling OBL to
purchase one (1) common share of Aquila for $0.34 for a period of 42 months
following closing of the Aquila Private Placement. So long as OBL continues to
hold more than 10% of the Aquila common shares, OBL will have the right to
nominate one representative to Aquila’s board of directors and the right to
participate in any future equity or equity-linked offerings to maintain its pro
rata ownership interest. Joseph de la Plante, current Vice President, Corporate
Development of Osisko, was appointed to the board of Aquila. 
Closing of a $300 million Financing of Debentures

On November 3, 2017, Osisko closed an offering of convertible
senior unsecured debentures in an aggregate principal amount of $300 million
(the “Debentures”). The offering was comprised of a public offering, by
way of a short form prospectus, of $184 million aggregate principal amount of
Debentures and a private placement offering of $116 million aggregate principal
amount of Debentures, including the exercise in full of the underwriters’
option. The Debentures were sold on a “bought deal” basis through the 2017
Underwriters.
The Debentures bear interest at a rate of 4.00% per annum,
payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31 each year, commencing on June
30, 2018. The Debentures will be convertible at the holders’ option into Osisko
Shares at a conversion price equal to C$22.89 per Osisko Share (representing a
conversion rate of 43.6872 Osisko Shares per $1,000 principal amount of
Debentures). The Debentures will mature on December 31, 2022 and may be redeemed
by Osisko, in certain circumstances, on or after December 31, 2020. 
Private Placement and Warrant Exercise with Dalradian
Resources Inc. 
On October 10, 2017, Osisko announced that it has entered into
an agreement with Dalradian pursuant to which Osisko has agreed to purchase
19,217,687 common shares of Dalradian at $1.47 per common share for a total
investment of $28.3 million. In addition, Osisko exercised 6.25 million warrants
at $1.04 per warrant, bringing the total investment to approximately C$34.8
million. The agreement entered into with Dalradian contains various covenants
and rights, including among other things, a standstill, participation rights in
favour of Osisko to maintain its pro rata interest in Dalradian and rights to
match other offers for project financing. 
Arizona Mining Inc.
On October 10, 2017, Osisko announced that it has divested its
investment in Arizona Mining for gross proceeds of $32.5 million, generating a
gain for Osisko of $22.8 million on the disposal of the investment, based on the
cash cost of the shares. 
Appointment of Mr. Pierre Chenard to the Board of
Directors of Osisko
On September 18, 2017, Osisko announced the appointment of Mr.
Pierre Chenard to the Osisko Board, as the nominee of CDP Investissements Inc.,
an affiliate of CDPQ. 
33

Orion Transaction
On July 31, 2017, Osisko acquired a precious metals portfolio
of assets from Orion consisting of 61 royalties, 6 streams and 7 precious metal
offtakes.
See “Description of Business - Business Combination with Orion
Mine Finance Group”. 
IDM Mining Ltd.
On March 8, 2017, Osisko announced that it has subscribed for
29,400,000 common shares of IDM Mining Ltd. at a price of $0.17 per share and
41,000,000 flow-through common shares at a price of $0.25 per share for a total
subscription price of $15,248,000. In connection with this private placement,
IDM Mining Ltd. granted to Osisko certain pre-emptive rights in respect to
purchases or grants of royalties or streams from the Red Mountain gold project.

Acquisition of Silver Stream on Taseko Mines Limited’s
Gibraltar Copper Mine 
On March 3, 2017, Osisko acquired a silver stream with
reference to silver produced at the Gibraltar copper mine located in British
Columbia, Canada, from Gibraltar Mines Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Taseko. Taseko owns a 75% joint venture interest in the Gibraltar copper mine.
Osisko paid Taseko cash consideration of US$33 million for the silver stream. In
addition, Osisko will make ongoing payments of US$2.75 per ounce of silver
delivered. 
The principal terms of this agreement are as follows:

 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko will receive from Taseko an amount equal to 100%
 of Taseko’s share of the silver production on the Gibraltar copper mine
 until delivery of 5.9 million ounces of silver. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko paid Taseko a cash consideration of US$33 million
 for the silver stream as an advance payment against the purchase price for
 the sale of silver to Osisko. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The effective date of the transaction is January 1, 2017.
 Any silver in respect of which a delivery is made to an offtaker after
 January 1, 2017, is subject to the stream. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The silver payability rate is 90% of contained silver in
 concentrate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Osisko will make ongoing payments of US$2.75 to Taseko
 per silver ounce delivered. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Silver deliveries will be the secured, subordinated
 obligation of Gibraltar Mines Ltd., but will be guaranteed by Taseko.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Taseko has granted Osisko 3 million common share purchase
 warrants (the “Taseko Warrants”), with each Taseko Warrant
 entitling Osisko to purchase one (1) common share of Taseko at a strike
 price of $2.74. The Taseko Warrants will expire on April 1, 2020. If at
 any point during the life of the Taseko Warrants, Taseko’s share price
 trades at a premium of 25% above the strike price for a 30-day consecutive
 period, Taseko may force the exercise of the Taseko Warrants.
 
Sale of interest in Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation

Over the course of the fourth quarter of 2016 and January 2017,
Osisko sold its 9.8% interest in Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation. Osisko
received $113.4 million in proceeds (including $98.2 million in 2016). During
the period it held shares of Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation, Osisko
received $10.7 million in dividends. 
34

2016
Appointment of Mr. Jacques Perron to the Board of
Directors of Osisko
On December 12, 2016, Osisko announced the appointment of Mr.
Jacques Perron to the Osisko Board.
Earn-In Agreement with Osisko Mining Inc.
Effective October 4, 2016, Osisko entered into an earn-in
agreement with Osisko Mining, which was subsequently amended to create two
separate earn-in agreements. Under the first earn-in agreement, Osisko Mining
may earn a 100% interest in 24 of Osisko’s exploration properties located in the
James Bay area (excluding the Coulon copper-zinc project and four other
exploration properties) and Labrador Trough upon completing expenditures of
$26.0 million over a 7-year period; Osisko Mining will earn a 50% interest upon
completing expenditures totaling $15.6 million over a 4-year period. This first
earn-in agreement was amended at the end of 2017 to postpone to December 31,
2018 Osisko Mining’s firm commitment to incur minimum cumulative expenditures on
the explorations properties in an amount of $4,062,500. 
Under the second earn-in agreement, Osisko Mining may earn a
100% interest in the Kan property (comprised of the Kan and Fosse Au properties)
upon completing expenditures totaling $6.0 million; Osisko Mining may earn a 50%
interest upon completing expenditures totaling $3.6 million over a 4-year
period. Osisko retained an escalating NSR royalty ranging from 1.5% to a maximum
of 3.5% on precious metals and a 2.0% NSR royalty on other metals and minerals
produced from the 26 properties. Additionally, new properties acquired by Osisko
Mining in a designated area during a 7-year term will be subject to a royalty
agreement in favour of Osisko with similar terms. Osisko undertook not to
participate in any exploration activity and is bound not to compete with Osisko
Mining in areas covered by the agreement, except for the continuation of
activities on the Coulon copper-zinc project and on four other exploration
properties.
As part of the transaction, Osisko Mining hired most of the
Osisko Québec based exploration team (former Virginia employees) and took over
the Québec office lease. 
Osisko has also exercised its option to acquire a 1% NSR
royalty on Osisko Mining’s properties (including the Windfall and Urban Barry
properties) for $5 million (see “General Development of Osisko’s Business -2015
- Osisko Mining Inc.”). 
Listing on the NYSE
On July 6, 2016, the Osisko Shares began to trade on the NYSE
under the ticker symbol “OR”.
Highland Copper Company Inc.
On June 30, 2016, Highland and Osisko agreed to amend the terms
of their agreement entered into in December 2014 and to convert the $10 million
secured loan into a 3% NSR royalty on all metals produced from the mineral
rights and leases associated with the Copperwood project. Upon closing of the
acquisition of the White Pine project, Highland will grant Osisko a 1.5% NSR
royalty on all metals produced from the White Pine project, and Osisko’s royalty
on Copperwood will be reduced to 1.5% . Following the conversion, Osisko retains
its option to purchase for US$26 million any future silver production from the
White Pine and Copperwood projects. 
Falco Resources Ltd.
On May 30, 2016, Osisko provided a $10 million loan to Falco
bearing interest at 7% per annum. Under the terms of the loan, Falco and Osisko
shall negotiate, by the end of May 2018, the terms, conditions and form of a
silver and/or gold stream agreement required to build the Falco’s Horne 5
project. In this case, the principal amount of the loan and any accrued interest
will be applied against the stream deposit. At the maturity date, if Falco and Osisko have not concluded a stream
agreement, the principal amount of the loan will be converted into a 1 % NSR
royalty on the Horne 5 project and accrued interests will be paid in cash.4
35

 
Arizona Mining Inc.
On April 25, 2016, Osisko acquired for $10 million a 1% NSR
royalty on any lead/zinc/silver sulfide ores mined from the Hermosa project
owned by Arizona Mining. The Hermosa project is located in Santa Cruz County,
Arizona. Osisko also subscribed for a total of 8,930,000 units at a price of
$0.56 per unit, for gross proceeds of $5,000,800. Each unit consisted of one (1)
common share of Arizona Mining and one half of one common share purchase
warrant, each whole warrant being convertible into one (1) common share of
Arizona Mining at a price of $0.75 for a period of 18 months. 
$173 Million Bought Deal Public Offering
On February 26, 2016, Osisko closed a bought deal public
offering by way of a short form prospectus in all of the provinces of Canada of
11,431,000 units (the “2016 Units”), including the full exercise of an
over-allotment option by a syndicate of underwriters co-led by BMO Nesbitt Burns
Inc. and RBC Dominion Securities Inc., at a price of $15.10 per 2016 Unit,
representing aggregate gross proceeds to Osisko of $172,608,000.
Each 2016 Unit was comprised of one (1) Osisko Share and
one-half of one common share purchase warrant, each full warrant entitling the
holder thereof to purchase one (1) Osisko Share at a price of $19.08 per Osisko
Share for a period of 36 months. 
$50 Million Financing with Ressources Québec inc.

On February 12, 2016, Ressources Québec, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Investissement Québec, subscribed to a five-year $50 million
convertible debenture, bearing interest at an annual rate of 4% payable
quarterly (the “RQ Debenture”). Ressources Québec will be entitled, at
its option, to convert the RQ Debenture into Osisko Shares at a price of $19.08
per Osisko Share at any time during its term. 
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd.
On February 5, 2016, Osisko announced that it closed its
previously announced royalty financing and the second tranche of the private
placement with Barkerville (a first tranche of $6 million closed on December 23,
2015). On November 30, 2015, Osisko and Barkerville announced the entering into
of a binding letter agreement whereby Osisko agreed to purchase 32,000,000
common shares, issued on a flow-through basis, of Barkerville at a price of
$0.32 per share for total proceeds of $10,240,000 as well as a 1.5% NSR royalty
on the Cariboo Gold project located in British Columbia, Canada, for cash
consideration of $25 million. 
In April 2017, Osisko acquired an additional 0.75% NSR royalty
on the Cariboo gold project for cash consideration of $12.5 million, increasing
the total NSR royalty held by Osisko to 2.25% . Osisko retains a right of first
refusal relating to any gold stream offer received by Barkerville with respect
to the Cariboo gold project.
________________________

 
 4 
 
 On November 29, 2017, the maturity date of the loan was
 extended to May 31, 2018. In February 2018, Falco and Osisko agreed to
 amend the provision relating to payment of interests under the senior note
 issued by Falco by deferring the payment date of the interest payable on
 the principal amount of $10 million to the earlier of (i) five (5)
 business days from the closing of a financing by Falco for minimum net
 proceeds of $40 million or (ii) March 31, 2019, provided that no interest
 shall be payable prior to the maturity date of the senior
 note.
36

Osisko was also granted the right to appoint two nominees to
the board of directors of Barkerville. Upon closing of the private placement,
Sean Roosen (Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko) was appointed as
Co-Chairman of Barkerville, Chris Lodder, a director of Barkerville, was
selected to serve as Osisko’s second nominee and Luc Lessard, Senior Vice
President, Technical Services of Osisko, was appointed as Chief Operating
Officer. 
Osisko Mining Inc. and NioGold Mining Corporation

On January 11, 2016, Osisko Mining announced its intention to
acquire all of the outstanding shares of NioGold by way of a statutory plan of
arrangement (the “NioGold Arrangement”). In connection with the NioGold
Arrangement, Osisko Mining also announced a “best efforts” private placement of
8,333,333 subscription receipts of Osisko Mining (the “Osisko Mining
SRs”) at a subscription price of $1.20 per Osisko Mining SR for total gross
proceeds of $10 million (the “Osisko Mining Offering”).
Each Osisko Mining SR entitled the holder thereof to receive,
for no additional consideration and without further action on the part of the
holder thereof, following the satisfaction by Osisko Mining of the release
conditions (a) one (1) Osisko Mining Share and (b) one (1) common share purchase
warrant of Osisko Mining (an “Osisko Mining Warrant”). Each Osisko Mining
Warrant is exercisable into one Osisko Mining Share for a period of thirty-six
(36) months from the closing date of the Osisko Mining Offering at an exercise
price of $1.44. 
The Osisko Mining Offering closed on February 3, 2016, with
10,521,700 Osisko Mining SRs sold (which included a partial exercise of an
over-allotment option) for gross proceeds of $12,626,000. 
Osisko subscribed for and received 800,000 Osisko Mining SRs
under the Osisko Mining Offering.
In connection with the NioGold Arrangement, which closed on
March 11, 2016, Osisko received an additional 9,833,495 Osisko Mining Shares.

2015
Increase of Revolving Credit Facility
On December 23, 2015, Osisko amended the Credit Agreement,
thereby increasing the amount of the facility from $100 million to $150 million.
The revolving credit facility is to be used for investments in the mineral
industry, including the acquisition of royalties and/or funding precious metal
streams. The revolving credit facility is secured by Osisko’s assets. 
Receipt of First Shipment of Gold Ounces - Éléonore
Royalty 
On December 22, 2015, Osisko announced the receipt of a first
shipment of gold ounces from the Éléonore Royalty. As a reminder, Osisko did not
receive any gold or silver ounces from the Éléonore Royalty until a US$5 million
non-interest bearing royalty advance payment was recovered by Goldcorp from
production of the Éléonore Mine. 
Acquisition from Teck Resources Limited of a Portfolio of
Royalties 
On October 19, 2015, Osisko announced an agreement to acquire a
portfolio of thirty-one (31) Canadian royalty interests held by Teck in exchange
for cash consideration of $28 million, with an additional $2.5 million to be
paid on confirmation of certain rights. 
On November 17, 2015, Osisko announced the closing of the first
portion of the acquisition, pursuant to which Osisko acquired a portfolio of
twenty-eight (28) royalties for cash consideration of $24.2 million, with an
additional $2.5 million to be paid upon the confirmation of certain rights. The
additional payment of $2.5 million was not made as the rights were not
confirmed. 
37

Such portfolio of royalties includes the following:

 
 
 1. 
 
 Island Gold. Three (3) royalties from 2.0%
 NSR to 3.0% NSR on the producing Island Gold Mine properties located in
 Northern Ontario owned by Richmont Mines Inc. (now owned by Alamos Gold
 Inc.);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 Lamaque. 2.0% NSR royalty on the Lamaque
 property located in the Abitibi owned by Integra Gold Corp. (now owned by
 Eldorado Gold Corporation);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 Hewfran. 2.0% NSR royalty on the Hewfran
 Block located in Northern Québec owned by Metanor Resources Inc.;
 and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 Marban. 0.5% NSR royalty and right to $5
 million payment upon commercial production on the Marban property owned by
 NioGold and located near the Canadian Malartic mine in Malartic,
 Québec.
In conjunction with the Virginia Arrangement, CDPQ and Fonds
FTQ were granted a combined 15% right to participate, subject to certain
conditions, in future royalty or stream transactions entered into by Osisko.
On February 17, 2016, CDPQ exercised such participation right
to acquire a 15% interest in the portfolio of twenty-eight (28) Canadian royalty
interests acquired by Osisko from Teck to date. 
Acquisition of the Vezza Royalties
Pursuant to a royalty purchase agreement dated September 10,
2015, Osisko acquired a 5% NSR royalty and a 40% NPI royalty in the Vezza gold
property operated by Nottaway for a total acquisition price of $10 million (the
“Vezza Purchase Price”). It was agreed that Nottaway shall drawdown on
the Vezza Purchase Price in no less than two (2) tranches of no more than $5
million. In March 2016, the Vezza Purchase Price was paid in full. The Vezza
property is located 25 km from Matagami, Québec.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
On September 21, 2015, Osisko implemented the Dividend
Reinvestment Plan.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan allows Canadian shareholders and
U.S. shareholders (commencing with the dividend paid on October 16, 2017 for
U.S. shareholders) to reinvest their cash dividends into additional Osisko
Shares either purchased on the open market through the facilities of TSX, or
issued directly from treasury by Osisko, or acquired by a combination thereof.
In the case of a treasury issuance, the price will be the weighted average price
of the Osisko Shares on the TSX during the five (5) trading days immediately
preceding the dividend payment date, less a discount, if any, of up to 5%, at
Osisko’s sole election. No commissions, service charges or brokerage fees are
payable by Osisko Shareholders who elect to participate in the Dividend
Reinvestment Plan.
Osisko Mining Inc.
On June 8, 2015, Osisko Mining entered into binding letter
agreements with each of Eagle Hill Exploration Corporation, Ryan Gold Corp. and
Corona Gold Corporation in respect of the proposed acquisition by Osisko Mining
of such companies.
In connection with the foregoing, Osisko and Osisko Mining
entered into an agreement pursuant to which Osisko agreed to purchase up to
181,818,181 Osisko Mining Shares at a price of $0.11 per share, for an aggregate
purchase price of up to $20 million (the “Osisko Mining Private
Placement”).
The financing commitment included the grant to Osisko of first
rights to participate in royalties and streams created by Osisko Mining and pro
rata financing participation rights. In addition, administrative services will
be provided to Osisko Mining by Osisko. 
38

The Osisko Mining Private Placement closed on August 25, 2015,
pursuant to which Osisko purchased 161,750,984 Osisko Mining Shares at a price
of $0.11 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $17.8
million.
Following the completion of the Osisko Mining Private
Placement, Sean Roosen (Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko; director of
Osisko Mining since August 2015), John F. Burzynski (Director of Osisko;
director of Osisko Mining since February 2010) and Robert Wares (director of
Osisko Mining since January 2013) were appointed to the board of directors of
Osisko Mining as nominees of Osisko further to nomination rights, among other
rights, granted to Osisko in connection with the Osisko Mining Private
Placement.
Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation
On May 15, 2015, Osisko announced the acquisition of a 9.8%
equity interest in Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation. 
Malartic CHL Prospect
Prior to completion of the Agnico-Yamana Arrangement, Osisko
Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation) held a direct 70%
interest in the Malartic CHL prospect (the “Malartic CHL Prospect”).
Upon completion of the Agnico-Yamana Arrangement, the Malartic
CHL Prospect was not included in the Canadian Malartic Royalty due to the
pending legal dispute with a third party.
On February 23, 2015, Osisko provided a public update in
respect of its royalty interest in the Malartic CHL Prospect, which among other
things hosts the Odyssey North discovery and announced that it has entered into
a letter of intent with Agnico and Yamana whereby Osisko received a 3% NSR
royalty on 100% of the Malartic CHL Prospect. 
$200 Million Bought Deal Private
Placement
On January 21, 2015, Osisko announced a bought deal private
placement with a syndicate of underwriters, co-led by Macquarie Capital Markets
Canada Ltd. and RBC Dominion Securities Inc., pursuant to which the 2015
Underwriters agreed to buy 10,960,000 special warrants of Osisko (the
“Special Warrants”) at a price of $18.25 per Special Warrant,
representing aggregate gross proceeds of $200,020,000.
Each Special Warrant entitled the holder to acquire, for no
additional consideration, one (1) unit of Osisko, with each such unit being
comprised of one (1) Osisko Share and one-half of one common share purchase
warrant of Osisko (each whole common share purchase warrant a “SW
Warrant”), exercisable for eighty-four (84) months following closing of
the transaction at a price of $36.50 per Osisko Share. 
The Special Warrants were automatically exercised or deemed to
be exercised by the holders thereof on March 5, 2015, following which Osisko
issued an aggregate of 10,960,000 Common Shares and 5,480,000 SW Warrants. 
Closing of Virginia Arrangement
On February 17, 2015 (the “Virginia Arrangement Effective
Date”), the following transactions contemplated under an arrangement
transaction between Virginia and Osisko (the “Virginia Arrangement”)
closed: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 each Virginia Share held by a Virginia Shareholder (other
 than Osisko) was transferred by the holder thereof to Osisko in exchange
 for 0.92 Osisko Share, free and clear of any liens, claims or
 encumbrances, subject to the Virginia Plan of Arrangement, Virginia and
 SubCo amalgamated under the name “Osisko Exploration James Bay Inc. /
 Exploration Osisko - Baie James Inc.” and thereby becoming a wholly-owned
 subsidiary of Osisko;
39

 
 
 (b) 
 
 each Virginia Option outstanding immediately prior to the
 Virginia Arrangement Effective Date, whether or not vested, was exchanged
 for an option (each a “Replacement Osisko Option”) to acquire from
 Osisko the number of Osisko Shares equal to the product of the number of
 Virginia Shares by the Exchange Ratio. The exercise price per Osisko Share
 subject to a Replacement Osisko Option shall be equal to the quotient
 obtained by dividing the exercise price per Virginia Share by the Exchange
 Ratio;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 The exchange rights agreement dated January 31, 2014 (the
 “Coulon Exchange Rights Agreement”) was amended so that, a Coulon
 Shareholder shall, upon exercise of such Coulon Shareholder’s exchange
 rights thereunder (the “Coulon Exchange Rights”) in accordance with
 the terms and conditions of the Coulon Exchange Rights Agreement, no
 longer be entitled to receive Virginia Shares and shall instead be
 entitled to receive from Osisko such number of Osisko Shares (rounded to
 the nearest whole number with half of an Osisko Share rounded upwards)
 calculated in accordance with the formula set out in the Virginia Plan of
 Arrangement.
Consequently, on the Virginia Effective Date:

 
 
 (i) 
 
 29,964,240 Osisko Shares were issued to Virginia
 Shareholders (other than Osisko) in exchange for their Virginia
 Shares;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 the outstanding Virginia Options were exchanged for
 1,695,770 Replacement Osisko Options; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 up to 7,611,937 Osisko Shares issuable upon the exercise
 of the Coulon Exchange Rights were reserved for
issuance.
In addition, in connection with the closing of the Virginia
Arrangement, André Gaumond and Pierre Labbé were nominated as directors of
Osisko.
Significant Acquisitions
Except for the Orion Transaction, Osisko has not completed any
significant acquisition during its most recently completed financial year and
for which disclosure is required under Part 8 of NI 51-102. 
RISK FACTORS
An investment in Osisko Shares, as well as in Osisko’s
prospects, is speculative due to the risk nature of its business and the present
stage of its development. The risks described below are not the only ones
facing Osisko. Additional risks not currently known to Osisko, or that Osisko
currently deems immaterial, may also impair Osisko’s operations. If any of the
following risks actually occur, Osisko’s business, financial condition and
operating results could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that
certain of Osisko’s royalties, streams or other interests or assets will
generate earnings, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the
future.
In evaluating Osisko and its business, the readers should
carefully consider the risk factors which follow. These risk factors may not be
a definitive list of all risk factors associated with an investment in Osisko or
in connection with the business and operations of Osisko. 
40

Commodity Price Risks
Changes in the market price of the commodities
underlying Osisko’s interests may affect the profitability of
Osisko and the revenue generated therefrom
The revenue derived by Osisko from its portfolio of royalties,
streams and other interests and investments might be significantly affected by
changes in the market price of the commodities underlying its agreements.
Commodity prices, including those to which Osisko is exposed, fluctuate on a
daily basis and are affected by numerous factors beyond the control of Osisko,
including levels of supply and demand, industrial development levels, inflation
and the level of interest rates, the strength of the U.S. dollar and
geopolitical factors. All commodities, by their nature, are subject to wide
price fluctuations and future material price declines will result in a decrease
in revenue or, in the case of severe declines that cause a suspension or
termination of production by relevant operators, a complete cessation of revenue
from royalties, streams or other interests applicable to one or more relevant
commodities. Moreover, the broader commodity market tends to be cyclical, and a
general downturn in overall commodity prices could result in a significant
decrease in overall revenue. Any such price decline may result in a material
adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations and financial
condition. 
Third Party Operator Risks
Osisko has limited access to data regarding the operation
of mines in which it has royalties, streams or other interests 
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
does not serve as the mine’s operator and has little or no input into how the
operations are conducted. As such, Osisko has varying access to data on the
operations or to the actual properties themselves. This could affect its ability
to assess the value of its interest or enhance the performance thereof. It is
difficult or impossible for Osisko to ensure that the properties are operated in
its best interest. Payments related to Osisko’s royalties, streams or other
interests may be calculated by the payors in a manner different from Osisko’s
projections. Osisko does, however, have rights of audit with respect to such
royalties, streams or other interests. 
Osisko has little or no control over mining operations in
which it holds royalties, streams or other interests 
Osisko has few or no contractual rights relating to the
operation or development of mines in which it only holds royalties, streams or
other interests. Osisko may not be entitled to any material compensation if
these mining operations do not meet their forecasted production targets in any
specified period or if the mines shut down or discontinue their operations on a
temporary or permanent basis. Certain of these properties may not commence
production within the time frames anticipated, if at all, and there can be no
assurance that the production, if any, from such properties will ultimately meet
forecasts or targets. At any time, any of the operators of the mines or their
successors may decide to suspend or discontinue operations. Osisko is subject to
the risks that the mines shut down on a temporary or permanent basis due to
issues including, but not limited to, economic, lack of financial capital,
floods, fire, mechanical malfunctions, social unrest, expropriation, community
relations and other risks. These issues are common in the mining industry and
can occur frequently. 
Osisko is dependent on the payment or delivery of amounts
for royalties, streams or other interests by the owners and operators of certain
properties and any delay in or failure of such payments or deliveries will
affect the revenues generated by Osisko’s asset portfolio 
Royalties, streams and other interests in natural resource
properties are largely contractual in nature. Parties to contracts do not always
honour contractual terms and contracts themselves may be subject to
interpretation or technical defects. To the extent grantors of royalties,
streams or other interests do not abide by their contractual obligations, Osisko
would be forced to take legal action to enforce its contractual rights. Such
litigation may be time consuming and costly and there is no guarantee of
success. While any proceedings or actions are pending, or if any decision is
determined adversely to Osisko, such litigation may have a material adverse
effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations and financial condition. 
41

In addition, Osisko is dependent to a large extent upon the
 financial viability and operational effectiveness of owners and operators of the
 relevant properties. Payments and/or deliveries from production generally flow
 through the operator and there is a risk of delay and additional expense in
 receiving such revenues. Payments and/or deliveries may be delayed by
 restrictions imposed by lenders, delays in the sale or delivery of products, the
 ability or willingness of smelters and refiners to process mine products,
 recovery by the operators of expenses incurred in the operation of the
 properties, the establishment by the operators of reserves for such expenses or
 the insolvency of the operator. Osisko’s rights to payment and/or delivery under
 the royalties, streams or other interests must, in most cases, be enforced by
 contract without the protection of a security interest over property that Osisko
 could readily liquidate. This inhibits Osisko’s ability to collect outstanding
 royalties, streams or other interests upon a default. In the event of a
 bankruptcy of an operator or owner, Osisko may have a limited prospect for full
 recovery of revenues. Failure to receive any payments and/or deliveries from the
 owners and operators of the relevant properties may result in a material and
 adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operation and financial
condition.
Risks related to mining operations
Mining operations involve significant risks that even a
combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate or
adequately mitigate. Major expenditures are required to develop metallurgical
processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular
site. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number
of factors, some of which are: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as
size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which are highly
volatile; and governmental regulations, including those relating to prices,
taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, allowable production, importing and
exporting of minerals and environmental protection.
Thus, Osisko’s business might be impacted by such risks
inherent to mining operations and is dependent, among other things, on mining
operations conducted by third parties. 
Osisko may acquire royalties, streams or other interests
in respect of properties that are speculative and there can be no guarantee that
mineable deposits will be discovered or developed 
Exploration for metals and minerals is a speculative venture
necessarily involving substantial risk. There is no certainty that the
expenditures made by the operator of any given project will result in
discoveries of commercial quantities of minerals on lands where Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests. 
If mineable deposits are discovered, substantial expenditures
are required to establish reserves through drilling, to develop processes to
extract the resources and, in the case of new properties, to develop the
extraction and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for
extraction. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a
major deposit, no assurance can be given that resources will be discovered in
sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds
required for development can be obtained on terms acceptable to the operator or
at all. Although, in respect of these properties, Osisko intends to only hold
royalties, streams or other interests and not be responsible for these
expenditures, the operator may not be in a financial position to obtain the
necessary funds to advance the project. 
Operational Risks
The properties on which Osisko holds royalties, streams
or other interests are subject to exploration and mining risks 
Osisko seeks to acquire royalties, streams or other interests
in mineral properties or equity interests in companies that have exploration
properties, advanced staged development projects or operating mines. Royalties,
streams or other interests are non-operating interests in mining projects that
provide the right to revenue or production from the project after deducting
specified costs, if any. Mineral exploration and development involves a high
degree of risk and few properties which are explored are ultimately developed
into producing mines. The long-term profitability of Osisko’s operations will be
in part directly related to the cost and ultimate success of the operating mines
in which Osisko has royalties, streams or other interest or the companies in
which Osisko has equity interests, which may be affected by a number of factors
beyond Osisko’s control. 
42

Operating a producing mine involves many risks, which even a
 combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to
 overcome. Operations in which Osisko has a direct or indirect interest are and
 will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration,
 development and production of mineral resources and mineral reserves, any of
 which could result in work stoppages, damage to property, and possible
environmental damage. 
Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations and
other conditions such as fire, power outages, flooding, explosions, cave-ins,
landslides and the inability to obtain suitable machinery, equipment or labour
are involved in mineral exploration, development and operation. Operating
companies which operate on properties on which Osisko has royalties, streams or
other interests may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or
hazards against which they cannot insure or against which they may elect not to
insure. The payment of such liabilities may have a material, adverse effect on
the financial position of such operating companies, and in turn, may have a
material adverse effect on the financial position of Osisko. 
In addition, labour disruptions are a hazard to mineral
exploration, development and operation. There is always a risk that strikes or
other types of conflict with unions or employees may occur at any one of the
properties on which Osisko may hold royalties, streams or other interests.
Although it is uncertain whether labour disruptions will be used to advocate
labour, political or social goals in the future, labour disruptions could have a
material adverse effect on the results of operations of the mineral properties
in which Osisko may hold an interest. 
Agreements pertaining to royalties, streams or other interests
are based on mine life and in some instances a drop in metal prices or a change
in metallurgy may result in a project being shut down with a material, adverse
effect on that company’s financial position, and in turn, may have a material
adverse effect on the financial position of Osisko. 
The properties held by Osisko or on which Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests may require permits and licenses

The properties held by Osisko or on which Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests, including the mine operations, may
require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be
no assurance that the operator of any given project will be able to obtain or
maintain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out
exploration, development and mining operations. 
Mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates have
inherent uncertainty 
Mineral resource and mineral reserve figures are only
estimates. Such estimates are expressions of judgment based on knowledge, mining
experience, analysis of drilling results and industry practices. While Osisko
believes that the mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates, as applicable,
in respect of properties in which Osisko holds a direct interest or royalties,
streams or other interests reflect best estimates performed by or on behalf of
the owner of such properties, the estimating of mineral resources and mineral
reserves is a subjective process and the accuracy of mineral resource and
mineral reserve estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available
data, the accuracy of statistical computations, and the assumptions used and
judgments made in interpreting available engineering and geological information.
There is significant uncertainty in any mineral resource and mineral reserve
estimate and the actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of a
deposit may differ materially from estimates. Estimated mineral resources and
mineral reserves may have to be re-estimated based on changes in prices of gold
or other minerals, further exploration or development activity or actual
production experience. This could materially and adversely affect estimates of the volume
or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery rates or other important factors
that influence such estimates. In addition, mineral resources are not mineral
reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resource estimate will
ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable mineral reserves. Mineral
resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic
viability. 
43

If operators reduce their mineral reserves and mineral
 resources on properties underlying Osisko’s royalties, streams or other
 interests, this may result in a material and adverse effect on Osisko’s
 profitability, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price
of Osisko securities. 
Economics of developing mineral
properties
Mineral exploration and development is speculative and involves
a high degree of risk. While the discovery of an ore body may result in
substantial rewards, few properties which are explored are commercially mineable
and ultimately developed into producing mines. There is no assurance that any
exploration properties will be commercially mineable. 
Should any mineral resources and mineral reserves exist,
substantial expenditures will be required to confirm mineral reserves which are
sufficient to commercially mine and to obtain the required environmental
approvals and permitting required to commence commercial operations. The
decision as to whether a property contains a commercially viable mineral deposit
and should be brought into production will depend upon the results of
exploration programs and/or feasibility studies, and the recommendations of duly
qualified engineers and/or geologists, all of which involves significant
expense. This decision will involve consideration and evaluation of several
significant factors including, but not limited to: (a) costs of bringing a
property into production, including exploration and development work,
preparation of production feasibility studies and construction of production
facilities; (b) availability and costs of financing; (c) ongoing costs of
production; (d) metal prices; (e) environmental compliance regulations and
restraints (including potential environmental liabilities associated with
historical exploration activities); and (f) political climate and/or
governmental regulation and control. Development projects are also subject to
the successful completion of engineering studies, issuance of necessary
governmental permits, and availability of adequate financing. Development
projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash
flow. 
Factors beyond the control of Osisko
The potential profitability of mineral properties is dependent
upon many factors beyond Osisko’s control. For instance, world prices of and
markets for minerals are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to
governmental fixing, pegging and/or controls and respond to changes in domestic,
international, political, social and economic environments. Another factor is
that rates of recovery of minerals from mined ore (assuming that such mineral
deposits are known to exist) may vary from the rate experienced in tests and a
reduction in the recovery rate will adversely affect profitability and,
possibly, the economic viability of a property. Profitability also depends on
the costs of operations, including costs of labour, equipment, electricity,
environmental compliance or other production inputs. Such costs will fluctuate
in ways Osisko cannot predict and are beyond Osisko’s control, and such
fluctuations will impact on profitability and may eliminate profitability
altogether. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the
availability and cost of funds for development and other costs have become
increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events
may materially affect the financial performance of Osisko. 
Influence of third party stakeholders
The lands held by Osisko or the companies in which Osisko has
royalties, streams or other interests, and the roads or other means of access
which they utilize or intend to utilize in carrying out work programs or general
business mandates, may be subject to interests or claims by third party
individuals, groups or companies. In the event that such third parties assert
any claims, work programs may be delayed even if such claims are not
meritorious. Such delays may result in significant financial loss and loss of
opportunity for Osisko. 
44

Foreign operation risk
Certain properties held by Osisko or the companies in which
Osisko has royalties, streams or other interests are located outside of the
United States and Canada. The ownership, development and operation of these
properties may be subject to additional risks associated with conducting
business in foreign countries, including, depending on the country,
nationalization and expropriation, social unrest, political and economic
instability, lack of infrastructure, less developed legal and regulatory
systems, uncertainties in perfecting mineral titles, crime, violence,
corruption, trade barriers, exchange controls and material changes in taxation.
These risks may, among other things, limit or disrupt the ownership, development
or operation of properties, mines or projects to which such properties relate,
restrict the movement of funds, or result in the deprivation of contractual
rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without
fair compensation. 
Reputational Risks
Osisko is subject to reputational risks
Reputational risk is the risk that an activity undertaken by an
organization or its representatives will impair its image in the community or
lower public confidence in it, resulting in loss of revenue, legal action or
increased regulatory oversight and loss of valuation and share price. Possible
sources of reputational risk could come from, but not limited to, operational
failures, non-compliance with laws and regulations, or leading an unsuccessful
financing. In addition to its risk management policies, controls and procedures,
Osisko has a formal Code of Ethics to help manage and support Osisko’s
reputation. 
Financial Condition Risks
Osisko is subject to risks related to its financial
condition 
Osisko’s financial condition has an impact on its risk profile.
A sound financial condition can allow Osisko to compete for accretive investment
opportunities: the better the financial condition, the more it can bid and
compete on quality assets. If additional funds are required, the source of funds
that may be available to Osisko, in addition to cash flows, is through the
issuance of additional equity capital, borrowings or the sale of assets. There
is no assurance that such funding will continue to be available to Osisko.
Furthermore, even if such financing is available, there can be no assurance that
it will be obtained on terms favourable to Osisko or provide Osisko with
sufficient funds to meet its objectives, which may adversely affect Osisko’s
business and financial condition. In addition, failure to comply with financial
covenants under Osisko’s current or future debt agreements or to make scheduled
payments of the principal of, or to pay interest on its indebtedness, would
likely result in an event of default under the debt agreements and would allow
the lenders to accelerate the debt under these agreements, which may affect the
Osisko’s financial condition. 
Additional financing may result in
dilution
Osisko may require additional funds to further its activities.
To obtain such funds, Osisko may issue additional securities including, but not
limited to, Osisko Shares or some form of convertible security, the effect of
which could result in a substantial dilution of the equity interests of Osisko
Shareholders. 
There can be no assurance that Osisko will be able to obtain
adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be
favourable. 
Declaration and payment of dividends
Any decisions to declare and pay dividends on the Osisko Shares
is, subject to the discretion of the Osisko Board, based on, among other things,
Osisko’s earnings, financial requirements for Osisko’s operations, the
satisfaction of applicable solvency tests for the declaration and payment of
dividends and other conditions existing from time to time. As a result, no
assurance can be given as to the frequency or amount of any such dividend. 
45

Osisko may be a “passive foreign investment company,” or
PFIC, under applicable U.S. income tax rules, which could result in adverse tax
consequences for United States investors 
If Osisko were to constitute a PFIC for any year during a U.S.
holder’s holding period, then certain potentially adverse U.S. federal income
tax rules would affect the U.S. federal income tax consequences to such U.S.
holder resulting from the acquisition, ownership and disposition of Osisko
Shares. 
The U.S. Treasury Department has not issued specific guidance
on how the income and assets of a non-U.S. corporation such as Osisko will be
treated under the PFIC rules. Osisko believes, on a more-likely-than-not basis,
that it was not a PFIC for its tax year ended December 31, 2017, and, based on
its current and anticipated business activities and financial expectations,
Osisko expects, on a more-likely-than-not basis, that it will not be a PFIC for
its current tax year and for the foreseeable future. 
The determination as to whether a corporation is, or will be, a
PFIC for a particular tax year depends, in part, on the application of complex
U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to differing interpretations
and uncertainty. In addition, there is limited authority on the application of
the relevant PFIC rules to entities such as Osisko. Accordingly, there can be no
assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge the views of
Osisko concerning its PFIC status. In addition, whether any corporation will be
a PFIC for any tax year depends on its assets and income over the course of such
tax year, and, as a result, Osisko’s PFIC status for its current tax year and
any future tax year cannot be predicted with certainty. Each U.S. holder should
consult its own tax adviser regarding the PFIC status of Osisko. 
Changes in tax legislation or accounting rules could
affect the profitability of Osisko
Changes to, or differing interpretation of, taxation laws or
regulations in any of Canada, Australia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Kenya,
Macedonia, Mexico, U.S.A. or any of the countries in which Osisko’s assets or
relevant contracting parties are located could result in some or all of Osisko’s
profits being subject to additional taxation. No assurance can be given that new
taxation rules or accounting policies will not be enacted or that existing rules
will not be applied in a manner which could result in Osisko’s profits being
subject to additional taxation or which could otherwise have a material adverse
effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations, financial condition and
the trading price of Osisko’s securities. In addition, the introduction of new
tax rules or accounting policies, or changes to, or differing interpretations
of, or application of, existing tax rules or accounting policies could make
royalties, streams or other interests by Osisko less attractive to
counterparties. Such changes could adversely affect Osisko’s ability to acquire
new assets or make future investments.
The CRA’s recent focus on foreign income earned by
Canadian companies may result in adverse tax consequences for Osisko
There has been a recent focus by the CRA on income earned by
foreign subsidiaries of Canadian companies. The majority of Osisko’s offtake and
stream assets are owned by and the related revenue is received by its Bermuda
subsidiary. Osisko has not received any reassessment or proposal from the CRA in
connection with income earned by its foreign subsidiaries. Although management
believes that Osisko is in full compliance with Canadian tax law, there can be
no assurance that Osisko’s structure may not be challenged in future. In the
event the CRA successfully challenges Osisko’s structure, this could potentially
result in additional federal and provincial taxes and penalties, which could
have a material adverse effect on Osisko. 
Financial Reporting Risks
Osisko is subject to risks related to financial
reporting 
In accordance with statutory requirements and sound management
practices, Osisko issues financial statements which present its financial
condition at a given date and its financial performance over a certain period.
The risk of misstatement of financial or restatement of financial statements can
result in significant losses to Osisko: financial losses, as a result of
litigation and fines, losses in market capitalization, reputational losses. Key
misstatements would include (a) fraudulent misappropriation of assets; (b) fraudulent misrepresentation of performance motivated by
personal gain; and (c) inadequate estimates with an impact on valuation of
assets and liabilities. 
46

Osisko may fail to maintain the adequacy of internal
 control over financial reporting as per the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act 
Section 404 of the SOX requires an annual assessment by
management of the effectiveness of Osisko’s internal control over financial
reporting and an attestation report by Osisko’s external auditor addressing this
assessment. While Osisko’s internal controls over financial reporting for its
last completed financial year were effective, Osisko may in the future fail to
achieve and maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial
reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to
time, and Osisko may not be able to ensure that it can conclude on an ongoing
basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in
accordance with Section 404 of SOX. Osisko’s failure to satisfy the requirements
of section 404 of SOX and achieve and maintain the adequacy of its internal
control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence
in the reliability of its financial statements, which in turn could harm
Osisko’s business and negatively impact the trading price of securities. In
addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or
difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm Osisko’s operating
results or cause it to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Future
acquisitions of companies may provide Osisko with challenges in implementing the
required processes, procedures and controls in its acquired operations. Acquired
companies may not have disclosure controls and procedures or internal control
over financial reporting that are as thorough or effective as those currently
applicable to Osisko. 
No evaluation can provide complete assurance that Osisko’s
internal control over financial reporting will detect or uncover all failures of
persons within Osisko to disclose material information otherwise required to be
reported. The effectiveness of Osisko’s controls and procedures could also be
limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, should Osisko expand
in the future, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal
control over financial reporting will increase and will require that Osisko
continue to improve its internal control over financial reporting. Although
Osisko intends to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as
necessary, to ensure compliance, Osisko cannot be certain that it will be
successful in complying with Section 404 on an ongoing basis. 
Human Resources Risks
Osisko may experience difficulty attracting and retaining
qualified management to grow its business, which could have a material adverse
effect on Osisko’s business and financial condition
Osisko may be dependent on the services of key executives and
other highly skilled personnel focused on advancing its corporate objectives as
well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. The loss
of these persons or its inability to attract and retain additional highly
skilled employees required for its activities may have a material adverse effect
on Osisko’s business and financial condition. Osisko implemented a succession
plan in order to mitigate the risk of being dependent on such key management.
From time to time, Osisko may also need to identify and retain additional
skilled management and specialized technical personnel to efficiently operate
its business. 
Osisko or the companies in which Osisko holds royalties,
streams offtake or other interests may remain highly dependent upon contractors
and third parties in the performance of their exploration, development and
operational activities. There can be no guarantee that such contractors and
third parties will be available to carry out such activities on their behalf or
be available upon commercially acceptable terms. 
47

Currency Risks
Osisko’s revenue, earnings, the value of its treasury and
the value it records for its assets are subject to variations in foreign
exchange rates, which may adversely affect the revenue generated by the asset
portfolio or cause adjustments to the recorded value of assets 
Osisko’s main activities and offices are currently located in
Canada and the costs associated with Osisko’s activities are in majority
denominated in Canadian dollar. However, Osisko’s revenues from the sale of
gold, silver or other commodities are in U.S. dollars. Osisko is subject to
foreign currency fluctuations and inflationary pressures, which may have a
material and adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operations and
financial condition. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by
management to address variations in foreign exchange rates will eliminate all
adverse effects and Osisko may suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency
rate fluctuations.
Financial Markets Risks
Osisko is subject to risks related to financial
markets 
Failure of financial markets can have a significant impact on
the valuation of Osisko and its assets, and increasing financial and takeover
risks. 
Fluctuation in market value of Osisko
Shares
The market price of the Osisko Shares is affected by many
variables not directly related to the corporate performance of Osisko, including
the strength of the economy generally, the availability and attractiveness of
alternative investments, and the breadth of the public market for the
securities. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of Osisko
Shares in the future cannot be predicted.
Securities markets have a high level of price and volume
volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have
experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related
to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such
companies. Factors unrelated to the financial performance or prospects of Osisko
include macroeconomic developments in North America and globally, and market
perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries or asset classes.
There can be no assurance that continued fluctuations in mineral prices will not
occur. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of Osisko’s
securities at any given time may not accurately reflect the long term value of
Osisko.
Equity Price Risk and Liquidity of
Investments
Osisko is exposed to equity price risk as a result of holding a
portfolio of investments in publicly listed companies. Just as investing in
Osisko is inherent with risks such as those set out in this Annual Information
Form, by investing in these other companies, Osisko is exposed to the risks
associated with owning equity securities and those risks inherent in the
investee companies. Osisko may have difficulty in selling its investments in
exploration and mining companies in the event such sales would be contemplated.

Legal Risks
Osisko is subject to significant governmental regulations

Osisko’s activities are subject to extensive federal,
provincial and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including:
environmental protection; management and use of toxic substances and explosives;
management of natural resources; exploration of mineral properties; exports;
price controls; taxation; labour standards and occupational health and safety,
including mine safety; and historic and cultural preservation. 
48

Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may
result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including
orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities enjoining or curtailing
operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of additional
equipment or remedial actions, any of which could result in significant
expenditures. Osisko may also be required to compensate private parties
suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or
permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations,
or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental
authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions
on or suspensions of Osisko’s activities and delays in the exploration of
properties. 
Osisko’s business is subject to evolving corporate
governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both Osisko’s
compliance costs and the risk of non compliance, which could have an adverse
effect on the price of Osisko’s securities
Osisko is subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated
by a number of Canadian and U.S. governmental and self-regulated organizations.
These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many
new requirements have been created, making compliance more difficult and
uncertain. Osisko’s efforts to comply with rules and regulations have resulted
in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and
administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from
revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 
Osisko may be subject to liability or sustain loss for
certain risks and hazards against which it does not or cannot economically
insure 
Mining is capital intensive and subject to a number of risks
and hazards, including environmental pollution, accidents or spills, industrial
and transportation accidents, labour disputes, changes in the regulatory
environment, natural phenomena (such as inclement weather conditions,
earthquakes and encountering unusual or unexpected geological conditions. Such
risk and hazards might impact the business of Osisko or of the companies in
which Osisko holds royalties, streams or other interests. Consequently, many of
the foregoing risks and hazards could result in damage to, or destruction of,
mineral properties or future processing facilities, personal injury or death,
environmental damage, delays in or interruption of or cessation of their
exploration or development activities, delay in or inability to receive required
regulatory approvals, or costs, monetary losses and potential legal liability
and adverse governmental action. Osisko, or the companies in which Osisko holds
royalties, streams or other interests, may be subject to liability or sustain
loss for certain risks and hazards against which they do not or cannot insure or
against which they may reasonably elect not to insure because of the cost. This
lack of insurance coverage could result in material economic harm to Osisko.

There can be no assurance of title to
property
There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties held
by Osisko or the companies in which Osisko has royalties, streams or other
interests. If there are title defects with respect to any such properties, they
might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce its interest in
the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution
of title issues would divert management’s time from ongoing programs. 
There may be amendments to laws
Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing
operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation
thereof, could have a material adverse impact on Osisko and cause increases in
capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at
producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new
mining properties. 
49

Disputes may arise over the existence, validity,
enforceability and geographic extent of royalties, streams or other interests

Royalties, streams and other interests are subject to title and
other defects and contestation by operators of mining projects and holders of
mining rights, and these risks may be difficult to identify. While Osisko seeks
to confirm the existence, validity, enforceability and geographic extent of the
royalties, streams and other interests it holds, there can be no assurance that
disputes over these and other matters will not arise.
The properties on which Osisko holds royalties, streams
or other interests or the companies in which Osisko has an equity interest may
be the subject of litigation 
Potential litigation may arise on a property on which Osisko
holds royalties, streams or other interests (for example litigation between
joint venture partners or original property owners) or with respect to a company
in which Osisko holds an equity interest. As a holder of royalties, streams or
other interests, Osisko will not generally have any influence on the litigation
nor will it generally have access to data. 
The registration of royalties, streams or other interests
may not protect Osisko’s interests 
The right to record or register royalties, streams or other
interests in various registries or mining recorders offices may not necessarily
provide any protection to Osisko. Accordingly, Osisko may be subject to risk
from third parties. 
Environmental risks and hazards
Osisko and the companies in which Osisko has royalties, streams
or other interest are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions
in which they operate. These regulations mandate, among other things, the
maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also
set forth limitations on the general, transportation, storage and disposal of
solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner
which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and
penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of
proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and
their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future
changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Osisko’s
operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties which are unknown
to Osisko at present and which have been caused by previous or existing owners
or operators of the properties. Reclamation costs are uncertain and planned
expenditures estimated by management may differ from the actual expenditures
required. 
Foreign countries and regulatory
requirements
Osisko and the companies in which Osisko holds royalties,
streams or other interests have investments in properties and projects located
in foreign countries. The carrying values of these properties and the ability to
advance development plans or bring the projects to production may be adversely
affected by whatever political instability and legal and economic uncertainty
might exist in such countries. These risks may limit or disrupt projects,
restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contractual
rights or the taking of property by nationalization, expropriation or other
means without fair compensation. 
There can be no assurance that industries which are deemed of
national or strategic importance in countries in which Osisko has assets,
including mineral exploration, production and development, will not be
nationalized. The risk exists that further government limitations, restrictions
or requirements, not presently foreseen, will be implemented. Changes in policy
that alter laws regulating the mining industry could have a material adverse
effect on Osisko. There can be no assurance that Osisko’s assets in these
countries will not be subject to nationalization, requisition or confiscation,
whether legitimate or not, by an authority or body. 
50

In addition, in the event of a dispute arising from foreign
operations, Osisko may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign
courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the
jurisdiction of courts in Canada. Osisko also may be hindered or prevented from
enforcing its rights with respect to a governmental instrumentality because of
the doctrine of sovereign immunity. It is not possible for Osisko to accurately
predict such developments or changes in laws or policy or to the extent to which
any such developments or changes may have a material adverse effect on Osisko’s
operations. 
Conflict of Interest Risks
Some of Osisko’s directors and officers may have
conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural
resource companies 
Some of the persons who are directors and officers of Osisko
are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies
and these associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time.
As a result of these conflicts of interest, Osisko may miss the opportunity to
participate in certain transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on
Osisko’s financial position.
Merger and Acquisitions Risks
Any mergers, acquisitions or joint ventures would be
accompanied by risks 
Osisko may evaluate from time to time opportunities to merge,
acquire and joint venture assets and businesses. Global landscape has changed
for mergers and acquisitions and there are risks associated to such transactions
due to liabilities and evaluations with the aggressive timelines of closing
transactions from increased competition. There is also a risk that the review
and examination process of a potential investment might be inadequate and cause
material negative outcomes. These acquisitions may be significant in size, may
change the scale of Osisko’s business and may expose it to new geographic,
political, operating, financial and geological risks. Osisko’s success in its
acquisition activities will depend on its ability to identify suitable
acquisition candidates and partners, acquire or joint venture them on acceptable
terms and integrate their operations successfully with those of Osisko. Any
acquisitions would be accompanied by risks, such as the difficulty of
assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies; the
potential disruption of Osisko’s ongoing business; the inability of management
to maximize the financial and strategic position of Osisko through the
successful incorporation of acquired assets and businesses or joint ventures;
additional expenses associated with amortization of acquired intangible assets;
the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; the
impairment of relationships with employees, customers and contractors as a
result of any integration of new management personnel; dilution of Osisko’s
present shareholders or of its interests in its subsidiaries or assets as a
result of the issuance of shares to pay for acquisitions or the decision to
grant interests to a joint venture partner; and the potential unknown
liabilities associated with acquired assets and businesses. There can be no
assurance that Osisko would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other
problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions or joint ventures.
There may be no right for shareholders to evaluate the merits or risks of any
future acquisition or joint venture undertaken except as required by applicable
laws and regulations. 
Mergers and acquisitions contemplated by Osisko may
require third party approvals 
Osisko may intend to enter into agreements to acquire
royalties, streams or other interests that require the consent or approval of
third parties in order to complete the contemplated acquisition. There can be no
assurance that such third parties, which may include shareholders of the entity
disposing of the interests, regulatory bodies or entities with an interest in
the applicable property or others, will provide the required approval or consent
in a timely manner, or at all. Failure to complete acquisitions may result in a
material adverse effect on Osisko’s profitability, results of operation and
financial condition. 
51

Osisko faces competition and the mining industry is
competitive at all of its stages
Many companies are engaged in the search for and the
acquisition of royalties, streams or other interests, and there is a limited
supply of desirable mineral interests. The mineral exploration business is
competitive in all phases. Many companies are engaged in the acquisition of
royalties, streams or other interests, including pension funds, private funds,
mining companies, operators and large, established companies with substantial
financial resources, operational capabilities and long earnings records. Osisko
may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring interests in natural resource
properties, whether by way of royalties, streams or other form of investment, as
many competitors have greater financial resources and technical staffs. There
can be no assurance that Osisko will be able to compete successfully against
other companies in acquiring interests in new natural resource properties and
royalties, streams or other interests. In addition, Osisko may be unable to make
acquisitions at acceptable valuations and on terms it considers to be
acceptable. Osisko’s inability to acquire additional royalties, streams or other
interests in mineral properties may result in a material and adverse effect on
Osisko’s profitability, results of operation and financial condition. 
In addition, there is no assurance that a ready market will
exist for the sale of commercial quantities of metals. Factors beyond the
control of Osisko may affect the marketability of any substances discovered.
These factors include market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of natural
resource markets and processing equipment, government regulations, including
regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use,
importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact
effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of
these factors may result in Osisko not receiving any future payments related to
royalties, streams or other interests or losing value on its equity investments.

Fraud Risks
Osisko is subject to potential fraud and
corruption 
Osisko is subject to risks related to potential to gain
benefits from improper transactions (purchasing, gold, payroll) and financial
reporting to hide operational deficiencies or enhance remuneration. Other risks
include the potential for fraud and corruption by suppliers, personnel or
government officials and which may implicate Osisko, compliance with applicable
anti-corruption laws, by virtue of Osisko operating in jurisdictions that may be
vulnerable to the possibility of bribery, collusion, kickbacks, theft, improper
commissions, facilitation payments, conflicts of interest and related party
transactions and Osisko’s possible failure to identify, manage and mitigate
instances of fraud, corruption, or violations of its Code of Ethics and
applicable regulatory requirements. 
52

MATERIAL MINERAL PROJECTS
The Canadian Malartic Royalty
Pursuant to the Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement, Osisko
holds in the Canadian Malartic Properties a real right in the Canadian Malartic
Properties (and the associated ores, minerals and mineral resources and
by-products thereof which may be extracted from the Canadian Malartic
Properties) and Canadian Malartic GP has agreed to pay Osisko a royalty equal to
5% of the net smelter return (as defined in the Canadian Malartic Royalty
Agreement) from production of metals, ores and other materials recovered from
the Canadian Malartic Properties (the “Canadian Malartic Royalty”). The
term of the Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement is perpetual.
For a description of the Canadian Malartic Properties, see
“Schedule B - Technical Information underlying the Canadian Malartic
Properties”. 
Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, Osisko may elect
to receive payment of the Canadian Malartic Royalty for such fiscal year to the
extent relating to gold and silver as an in-kind credit. If Osisko has elected
to receive the in-kind royalty, where precious metals are shipped in the form of
dore, Osisko’s account shall be credited with 5% of the refined gold and 5% of
the refined silver credited as soon as practicable and in any event no later
than five (5) business days after the refined gold or refined silver is
credited, subject to further adjustment. Since 2014, Osisko has elected to
receive the Canadian Malartic Royalty in-kind. The Canadian Malartic Royalty is
payable quarterly and all payments pursuant to the Canadian Malartic Royalty to
be paid in cash must be paid in United States dollars. 
Osisko has the right to inspect the Canadian Malartic
Properties and to inspect and audit books and records upon 20 days’ prior notice
to Canadian Malartic GP. Canadian Malartic GP is required to deliver to Osisko
an annual forecast report. 
If Canadian Malartic GP intends to abandon any portion of the
Canadian Malartic Properties, Osisko can elect to have such portion conveyed to
it, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. 
Canadian Malartic GP is required to pay Osisko a C$0.40 per
tonne milling fee in respect of ore milled at the Canadian Malartic Properties
after June 16, 2021 that is not produced from the Canadian Malartic Properties
provided no fee is payable in respect of any tonnes of ore milled in excess of
65,000 tpd. 
Osisko may assign all of its rights in the Canadian Malartic
Royalty without the prior consent of Canadian Malartic GP. Canadian Malartic GP
may not assign or otherwise convey the Canadian Malartic Properties unless
certain conditions are satisfied. 
A deed of hypothec was entered into in order to hypothecate the
Canadian Malartic Properties in favour of Osisko and securing payment of the
Canadian Malartic Royalty subject to certain terms and conditions. The hypothec
is first-ranking subject to, among other things, security existing at the time
of execution of the Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement. The Canadian Malartic
Royalty Agreement has been published at the Québec Public Register of Real and
Immovable Mining Rights. 
The Éléonore Royalty
Pursuant to the terms of the Éléonore Royalty Agreement, Osisko
holds a perpetual sliding-scale production royalty calculated on the NSR from
all production from the Éléonore Mine (the “Éléonore Royalty”).
For a description of the Éléonore Mine, see “Schedule C -
Technical Information underlying the Éléonore Mine”. 
53

The percentage applicable for gold is (a) set at 2.0% on the
first three million ounces of gold; (b) increases by 0.25% per million ounces
thereafter; (c) is subject to a 10% increase if the spot gold price is above
US$500 per ounce; and (d) will not be higher than 3.5% . 

 
 Royalty Percentage Relative to the
 Total Ounces of Gold Produced from the Éléonore Mine 
 
 Royalty Percentage 
 Gold Ounces Produced from the
 Éléonore Mine 
 
 2.0% 
 On the first three (3) million ounces 
 
 2.25% 
 On the cumulative ounces produced between 3
 million ounces and 4 million ounces 
 
 + 0.25% 
 For every additional million ounces of gold
 produced above 4 million ounces 
 
 Royalty Percentage Relative to the Price of
 Gold 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage less 10% of applicable
 Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold less than or equal to US$350
 / ounce 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage less 5% of applicable
 Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold greater than US$350 / ounce
 but less than or equal to US$400 / ounce 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold greater than US$400 / ounce
 but less than or equal to US$450 / ounce 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage plus 5% of applicable
 Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold greater than US$450 / ounce
 but less than or equal to US$500 / ounce 
 
 The applicable Royalty Percentage plus 10% of applicable
 Royalty Percentage 
 If price of gold greater than US$500 / ounce
 
The aggregate production royalty in respect of all precious
metals other than gold is 2% NSR. The aggregate production royalty in respect of
other minerals is 2% NSR. 
All cash payments pursuant to the Éléonore Royalty Agreement
must be paid in United States dollars. Osisko may elect to receive payment of
the Éléonore Royalty on precious metals as an in-kind credit. For 2015, 2016 and
2017, Osisko has elected to receive the Éléonore Royalty in-kind. 
Osisko may not assign all of its rights in the Éléonore Royalty
unless certain conditions are satisfied. 
A deed of hypothec was entered into hypothecating the Éléonore
Mine (including the land, the buildings that are or will be erected thereon, and
the property that is or will be, by accession or otherwise, incorporated into,
united with, or attached or joined to the immovable) and securing payment of the
Éléonore Royalty, subject to certain terms and conditions. 
The Renard Stream 
Stornoway’s Renard Diamond Mine is Québec's first and Canada’s
sixth producing diamond mine. It is located approximately 250 km north of the
Cree community of Mistissini and 350 km north of Chibougamau in the James Bay
region of north-central Québec. Construction on the project commenced on July
10, 2014, and commercial production was declared on January 1, 2017.
For a description of the Renard Diamond Mine, see “Schedule D -
Technical Information underlying the Renard Diamond Mine”. 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Renard
Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds: 
54 

 
 
 • 
 
 The term of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the
 Forward Sale of Diamonds is until July 8, 2054, with automatic renewals
 for additional terms of 10 years each, subject to the Renard Buyers' right
 to terminate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Under the terms of the Renard Streaming Agreement for the
 Forward Sale of Diamonds, FCDC sold a 20% undivided interest (in a
 proportion of 9.6% to Orion Stream I, 4% to CDPQ, 4% to BTO Shine L.P. and
 2.4% to other purchasers) (the “Subject Diamonds Interest”) in each
 Subject Diamond. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Renard Buyers were required under the Renard
 Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds to make certain
 up-front payments to FCDC, representing prepayment of a portion of the
 purchase price payable for the Subject Diamonds Interest, in an aggregate
 amount of the Renard Deposit, disbursed in three installments as follows:
 (a) a first installment of US$80 million, which was paid on March 31,
 2015; (b) a second installment of US$80 million, which was paid on
 September 30, 2015; and (c) a third installment of US$90 million, which
 was paid on March 30, 2016. The Renard Deposit provides a partial offset
 against the purchase price for the Subject Diamonds Interest, as described
 below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The purchase price for the Subject Diamonds Interest in
 each Subject Diamond is: (a) until the Renard Deposit has been fully
 offset, equal to the Gross Proceeds payable by payment of the Per Carat
 Cash Price in cash, with any amount by which the Gross Proceeds exceeds
 the Per Carat Cash Price being offset against the Renard Deposit, and (b)
 once the Renard Deposit has been fully offset, equal to the Per Carat Cash
 Price. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Marketing expenses associated with the sale of the
 Subject Diamonds Interest in each Subject Diamond are borne by the Renard
 Buyers; provided that such expenses do not exceed 3% of the Gross Proceeds
 from the sale of each Subject Diamond Interest in the Subject Diamonds.
 Such expenses are deducted from the Gross Proceeds transferred to the
 Renard Buyers upon the sale of each Subject Diamond.

The Mantos Stream
On September 11, 2015, Mantos, as seller and TitheCo, as
purchaser, entered into the Mantos Stream Agreement, which was subsequently
amended and restated on March 9, 2016 and on July 31, 2017.
The following is a summary of the material terms of the Mantos
Stream Agreement: 

 
 
 • 
 
 The term of the Mantos Stream Agreement will be for the
 life of mine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Stream percentage, subject to reduction, of 100% of
 payable silver from the Mantos Blancos Mine until 19,300,000 ounces have
 been delivered, after which the stream percentage will be 30%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The purchase price for silver under the Mantos Stream
 Agreement is the Mantos Silver Purchase Price for each ounce of refined
 silver sold and delivered and/or credited by Mantos to OBL . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In respect of any month, OBL may elect, on 30 days’ prior
 notice to Mantos, to reduce (a) the designated percentage of payable
 silver from 100% to 75%, and (b) the Mantos Silver Purchase Price to US$0.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Provided that no less than 1,990,000 ounces of refined
 silver has been delivered/credited by Mantos to OBL, Mantos may elect to
 reduce the amount of refined silver to be delivered and sold to OBL by
 50%, in which case Mantos shall make a cash payment of US$70 million to
 OBL. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 TitheCo (now OBL) made cash deposits in two installments,
 in the aggregate amount of US$82.5 in October 2015.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 OBL has a right of first refusal in respect of a sale or
 disposal by Mantos of any royalty, stream, participation or production
 interest in gold at the Mantos Blancos Mine or the Mantoverde mine prior
 to June 30, 2018. In the event that any interest in the Mantoverde mine or
 project is transferred by Mantos to a third party, then before the time of
 such transfer, the third party shall enter into a binding agreement with
 OBL offering OBL a right of first refusal on the terms set out in the
 Mantos Stream Agreement of any gold interest in relation to the Mantoverde
mine or project. 
55

The Brucejack Stream 
The following is a summary of the material terms of the
Brucejack Stream Agreement: 

 
 • 
 The term of the Brucejack Stream Agreement is
 the earlier of (i) the date on which Pretium Exploration has sold to OBL
 and BTO the Aggregate Gold Quantity and the Aggregate Silver Quantity, and
 (ii) September 15, 2055. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 A deposit of US$150 million (US$75 million from
 Orion Stream II (now OBL) and US$75 million from BTO) was advanced at
 closing as prepayment. The Refined Precious Metals will be reduced by the
 aggregate ounces of Refined Precious Metals sold and delivered prior to
 the applicable delivery start date. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 If Pretium Exploration exercises the 2018
 Stream Option, the Designated Metal Percentage will be 3% and if Pretium
 Exploration exercises the 2019 Stream Option, it will be 4%. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Pretium Exploration may elect to repurchase all
 or a portion of the Refined Precious Metals stream by one of the following
 options: 

 
 
 • 
 
 On December 31, 2018, Pretium Exploration can elect to
 exercise the 2018 Non- Stream Option or the 2018 Stream Option; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On December 31, 2019, Pretium Exploration can elect to
 exercise the 2019 Non- Stream Option or the 2019 Stream Option.
 

 
 • 
 
 If Pretium Exploration does not exercise the right to
 reduce or repurchase the Refined Precious Metals stream by December 31,
 2019, US$20 million will be payable to OBL and BTO and an 8% stream will
 apply to the Refined Precious Metals beginning January 1, 2020, with
 payment of US$400 per ounce of gold and US$4.00 per ounce of silver. If
 the market price of gold is greater than US$400 per ounce, the excess will
 decrease the deposit until it has been reduced to nil. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Subject to certain exceptions, the Brucejack Stream
 Agreement contains restrictions on the transfer of production and
 transfers of property and assets. The Brucejack Stream Agreement also
 contains a general prohibition regarding changes of control of Pretium
 Resources or any of its subsidiaries. The Brucejack Stream Agreement does
 not prohibit a transfer or change of control of Pretium Resources or any
 of its subsidiaries if a Triggering Event occurs or is agreed to prior to
 the earlier of (i) January 1, 2020; and (ii) the date the deposit is
 reduced to nil, and Pretium Exploration exercises the Purchase Right in
 exchange for consideration equal to the Triggering Event Amount. If a
 Triggering Event occurs and Pretium Exploration has not exercised the
 Purchase Right, OBL and BTO shall have the right at such time to require
 Pretium Exploration to purchase the Brucejack Stream Agreement in exchange
 for consideration equal to the Triggering Event Amount. Once the deposit
 is reduced to nil, there will be no consequences of a change of control of
 Pretium Resources. 
OBL and BTO have, as security for the payment of all of the
stream obligations, a second ranking security interest over all of the presently
held and future acquired property (subject only to permitted encumbrances).
After the deposit has been reduced to nil, the security provided by Pretium
Resources and 0890696 B.C. Ltd. will be released and discharged. 
56 

Following payment and performance in full of its obligations
under the Brucejack Stream Agreement, OBL and BTO’s agent (being OBL) will
promptly, at the request, cost and expense of Pretium Exploration, direct the
collateral agent to release and discharge the right and interest of OBL and BTO
in the collateral. 
DIVIDENDS
Dividend Program and Dividend Payments
On November 17, 2014, Osisko announced the initiation of a
quarterly dividend program. Since the initiation of the program, Osisko declared
dividends for the following quarters: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dividend 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dividend 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dividend 
 
 
 Reinvestment 
 
 
 Declaration date 
 
 
 per share 
 
 
 Record date 
 
 
 Payment date 
 
 
 payable 
 
 
 Plan(ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 November 16, 2014(i)
 
 
 
 0.03 
 
 
 December 31, 2014
 
 
 
 January 15, 2015
 
 
 
 1,551,000 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.03 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,551,000 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 February 19, 2015(i) 
 
 
 0.03 
 
 
 March 31, 2015 
 
 
 April 15, 2015 
 
 
 2,782,000 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 May 14, 2015 
 
 
 0.03 
 
 
 June 30, 2015 
 
 
 July 15, 2015 
 
 
 2,834,000 
 
 
 - 
 
 
 August 5, 2015 
 
 
 0.03 
 
 
 September 30, 2015 
 
 
 October 15, 2015 
 
 
 2,830,000 
 
 
 5,430,858 
 
 
 November 4, 2015 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 December 31, 2015
 
 
 
 January 15, 2016
 
 
 
 3,783,000 
 
 
 7,712,746 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,229,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 February 16, 2016 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 March 31, 2016 
 
 
 April 15, 2016 
 
 
 4,248,000 
 
 
 7,144,004 
 
 
 May 4, 2016 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 June 30, 2016 
 
 
 July 15, 2016 
 
 
 4,259,000 
 
 
 11,594,125 
 
 
 August 4, 2016 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 September 30, 2016 
 
 
 October 14, 2016 
 
 
 4,264,000 
 
 
 4,460,148 
 
 
 November 9, 2016 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 December 31, 2016
 
 
 
 January 16, 2017
 
 
 
 4,266,000 
 
 
 4,591,999 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 17,037,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 March 15, 2017 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 March 31, 2017 
 
 
 April 17, 2017 
 
 
 4,265,000 
 
 
 8,024,301 
 
 
 May 4, 2017 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 June 30, 2017 
 
 
 July 17, 2017 
 
 
 4,270,000 
 
 
 13,498,789 
 
 
 August 3, 2017 
 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 September 30, 2017 
 
 
 October 16, 2017 
 
 
 7,850,000 
 
 
 5,683,585 
 
 
 November 7, 2017 
 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 December 29, 2017
 
 
 
 January 15, 2018
 
 
 
 7,890,000 
 
 
 6,863,864 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 24,275,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 February 16, 2018 
 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 March 30, 2018 
 
 
 April 16, 2018 
 
 
 tbd(iii) 
 
 
 tbd(iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 (i) 
 
 The 1.2 million common shares that were held in escrow
 prior to June 30, 2015 were not eligible to the dividend.
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 Number of common shares held by shareholders
 participating to the Dividend Reinvestment Plan described below.
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 To be determined (“tbd”) on March 30, 2018 based
 on the number of shares outstanding and the number of shares participating
 in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan on the record
date.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
In 2015, Osisko implemented the Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The
Dividend Reinvestment Plan allows Canadian shareholders and U.S. shareholders
(commencing with the dividend paid on October 16, 2017 for U.S. shareholders) to
reinvest their cash dividends into additional Osisko shares either purchased on
the open market through the facilities of the TSX or the NYSE, or issued
directly from treasury by Osisko, or acquired by a combination thereof. In the
case of a treasury issuance, the price will be the weighted average price of the
Osisko Shares on the TSX or the NYSE during the five (5) trading days
immediately preceding the dividend payment date, less a discount, if any, of up
to 5%, at Osisko’s sole election. No commissions, service charges or brokerage
fees are payable by shareholders who elect to participate in the Dividend
Reinvestment Plan. 
As at December 31, 2017, the holders of 6,863,864 Osisko Shares
had elected to participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan. During the year
ended December 31, 2017, Osisko issued 88,536 Osisko Shares under the Dividend
Reinvestment Plan, at a discount rate of 3%. On January 17, 2018, 24,513 Osisko
Shares were issued under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan at a discount rate of
3%. 
57

DESCRIPTION OF CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Osisko Shares
Osisko is authorized to issue an unlimited number of Osisko
Shares without nominal or par value.
Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to the Osisko
Preferred Shares issuable in series and to the terms of an amended and restated
shareholder rights plan dated May 4, 2017, the rights, privileges, conditions
and restrictions attaching to the Osisko Shares, as a class, are equal in all
respects and include the following rights. 
Dividends
Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to any series
of Osisko Preferred Shares, the holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the
right to receive, if, as and when declared by the Osisko Board, any dividend on
such dates and for such amounts as the Osisko Board may from time to time
determine. 
Participation in case of Dissolution or Liquidation

Subject to the rights and restrictions attaching to any series
of Osisko Preferred Shares, the holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the
right, upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Osisko, to receive the
remaining property of Osisko. 
Right to Vote
The holders of the Osisko Shares shall have the right to one
(1) vote at any meeting of the shareholders of Osisko, except meetings at which
only holders of any series of Osisko Preferred Shares are entitled to vote.
As at March 27, 2018, 156,225,706 Osisko Shares were issued and
outstanding.
Osisko Preferred Shares
The rights and restrictions attached to the preferred shares of
Osisko issuable in series (the “Osisko Preferred Shares”) are as follows.

Issuance in Series
The Osisko Preferred Shares may be issued in one or more series
and subject as hereinafter provided and subject to the provisions of the QBCA,
the Osisko Board shall determine, by resolution, before the issue of each
series, the designation, rights and restrictions to be attached thereto,
including, but without in any way limiting or restricting the generality of the
foregoing: (a) the right, as the case may be, to receive dividends, the form of
payment of dividends, the rate or amount or method of calculation of dividends,
whether cumulative or non-cumulative, the date or dates and places of payment
and the date or dates from which such dividends shall accrue or become payable;
(b) the rights and/or obligations, if any, of Osisko or of the holders thereof
with respect to the purchase or redemption of the Osisko Preferred Shares and
the consideration for and the terms and conditions of any such purchase or
redemption; (c) the conversion or exchange rights, if any, and the conditions
attaching thereto; (d) the restrictions, if any, as to the payment of dividends
on shares of Osisko ranking junior to the Osisko Preferred Shares; and (e) any
other provisions deemed expedient by the directors, the whole subject to the
issuance of a Certificate of Amendment setting forth the number and the designation, as well as the rights and
restrictions to be attached to the Osisko Preferred Shares of such series. 
58

Dividends
The Osisko Preferred Shares shall, with respect to the payment
of dividends, be entitled to preference over any other class of shares of Osisko
ranking junior to the Osisko Preferred Shares, and no dividends shall at any
time be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any other shares of Osisko
ranking junior to the Osisko Preferred Shares, nor shall Osisko call for
redemption or purchase for cancellation any of the Osisko Preferred Shares
unless at the date of such declaration, payment, setting apart for payment or
call for redemption or purchase, as the case may be, all cumulative dividends up
to and including the dividend payment for the last completed period for which
such cumulative dividends shall be payable shall have been declared and paid or
set apart for payment in respect of each series of cumulative Osisko Preferred
Shares then issued and outstanding and the non-cumulative dividend payment for
the then current fiscal year and any declared and unpaid non-cumulative
dividends shall have been paid or set apart for payment in respect of each
series of non-cumulative Osisko Preferred Shares then issued and outstanding.

Liquidation or Dissolution
In the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
Osisko or other distribution of assets of Osisko among shareholders for the
purpose of winding-up its affairs, the holders of the Osisko Preferred Shares
shall be entitled to receive, before any amount shall be paid to, or any
property or assets of Osisko distributed among the holders of the Osisko Shares
or of shares of any other class of shares of Osisko ranking junior to the Osisko
Preferred Shares, and to the extent provided for with respect to each series,
the amount of the consideration received by Osisko for such Osisko Preferred
Shares, such premiums, if any, as has been provided for with respect to such
series together with, in the case of cumulative Osisko Preferred Shares, all
unpaid accrued dividends (which for such purpose shall be calculated as if such
cumulative dividends were accruing from day to day for the period from the
latest of the following dates, namely (a) the date fixed by the Osisko Board at
the time of allotment and issue of such shares or if such date is not fixed, the
date of their allotment and issue, or (b) the date of expiration of the last
period for which cumulative dividends have been paid, up to and including the
date of distribution) and, in the case of non-cumulative Osisko Preferred
Shares, all declared and unpaid dividends. After payment to the holders of the
Osisko Preferred Shares of the amounts so payable to them, they shall not be
entitled to share in any further distribution of the property or assets of
Osisko. 
Equal Rank of All Series
The Osisko Preferred Shares of each series shall rank pari
passu with the Osisko Preferred Shares of every other series with respect to
the payment of dividends, as the case may be, and the distribution of assets in
the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Osisko, whether
voluntary or involuntary, provided, however, that in the event of there being
insufficient assets to satisfy in full the repayment of all moneys owing to the
holders of Osisko Preferred Shares, such assets shall be applied rateably to the
repayment of the amount paid up on such Osisko Preferred Shares and, then, to
the payment of all unpaid accrued cumulative dividends, whether declared or not,
and all declared and unpaid non-cumulative dividends. 
Voting Rights
Subject to the provisions of the QBCA and, except as otherwise
expressly provided herein, the holders of any series of the Osisko Preferred
Shares shall not, as such, have any voting rights for the election of directors
or for any other purpose nor shall they be entitled to receive notice of or to
attend shareholders’ meetings. 
59

Amendments
As long as any of the Osisko Preferred Shares are outstanding,
Osisko may not, except with the approval of the holders of the Osisko Preferred
Shares hereinafter specified and after having complied with the relevant
provisions of the QBCA, create any other shares ranking in priority to or
pari passu with the Osisko Preferred Shares, voluntarily liquidate or
dissolve Osisko or effect any reduction of capital involving a distribution of
assets on other shares of its share capital or repeal, amend or otherwise alter
any of the provisions relating to the Osisko Preferred Shares as a class. 
Any approval of the holders of the Osisko Preferred Shares as
aforesaid shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given if contained in a
resolution adopted by a majority of not less than 2/3 of the votes cast by the
shareholders who voted in respect of that resolution at a meeting of the holders
of the Osisko Preferred Shares duly called and held for that purpose, at which
meeting such holders shall have one vote for each Osisko Preferred Share held by
them respectively, or in an instrument signed by all the holders of the then
outstanding Osisko Preferred Shares. 
If an amendment as hereinabove provided especially affects the
rights of the holders of Osisko Preferred Shares of any series in a manner or to
an extent different from that in or to which the rights of the holders of Osisko
Preferred Shares of any other series are affected, then such amendment shall, in
addition to being approved by the holders of the Osisko Preferred Shares voting
separately as a class, be approved by the holders of the Osisko Preferred Shares
of such series, voting separately as a series, and the provisions of this
paragraph shall apply, mutatis mutandis, with respect to the giving of
such approval. 
As of March 27, 2018, no Osisko Preferred Shares were issued
and outstanding. 
Warrants
In connection with a $200 million bought deal private
placement, Osisko issued, on March 5, 2015, 5,480,000 common share purchase
warrants entitling the holder thereof to purchase one (1) Osisko Share at a
price of $36.50 per Osisko Share, until March 5, 2022. These warrants are listed
on the TSX under the ticker symbol “OR.WT”. 
In connection with a $173 million bought deal public offering
by way of a short form prospectus which closed on February 26, 2016, Osisko
issued 6,450,000 warrants entitling the holder thereof to purchase one (1)
Osisko Share at a price of $19.08 per Osisko Share, until expiry of the warrants
on February 26, 2019. These warrants are listed on the TSX under the ticker
symbol “OR.WT.A”. 
Debentures
On November 3, 2017, Osisko closed a “bought deal” offering of
Debentures in an aggregate principal amount of $300 million. 
The Debentures bear interest at a rate of 4.00% per annum,
payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31 each year, commencing on June
30, 2018. The Debentures will be convertible at the holder’s option into Osisko
Shares at a conversion price equal to $22.89 per Common Share (representing a
conversion rate of 43.6872 Osisko Shares per $1,000 principal amount of
Debentures). The Debentures will mature on December 31, 2022 and may be redeemed
by Osisko, in certain circumstances, on or after December 31, 2020. The
Debentures are listed and posted for trading on the TSX under the symbol
“OR.DB”. 
60

MARKET FOR SECURITIES 
Trading Price and Volume 
Osisko Shares 
The Osisko Shares are currently listed on the TSX and on the
NYSE under the symbol “OR”. The following table sets forth the price range and
trading volume for the Osisko Shares on the TSX and the NYSE, for the periods
indicated. 

 
 
 
 TSX 
 
 
 NYSE

 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 
 Low 
 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 High 
 
 
 Low 
 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 (US$) 
 
 
 ($US) 
 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 
 14.46 
 
 
 12.97 
 
 
 10,921,647 
 
 
 11.07 
 
 
 9.64 
 
 
 4,727,049 
 
 
 February 
 
 15.90 
 
 
 14.12 
 
 
 10,137,946 
 
 
 12.07 
 
 
 10.76 
 
 
 5,386,379 
 
 
 March 
 
 15.46 
 
 
 13.81 
 
 
 17,208,280 
 
 
 11.64 
 
 
 10.315 
 
 
 14,301,235 
 
 
 April 
 
 15.46 
 
 
 13.89 
 
 
 9,036,198 
 
 
 11.54 
 
 
 10.19 
 
 
 14,281,930 
 
 
 May 
 
 15.58 
 
 
 13.78 
 
 
 9,601,610 
 
 
 11.88 
 
 
 10.02 
 
 
 17,816,192 
 
 
 June 
 
 17.38 
 
 
 14.06 
 
 
 15,809,574 
 
 
 12.89 
 
 
 10.41 
 
 
 29,232,497 
 
 
 July 
 
 16.25 
 
 
 15.33 
 
 
 5,763,596 
 
 
 13.01 
 
 
 11.81 
 
 
 8,553,927 
 
 
 August 
 
 17.58 
 
 
 15.57 
 
 
 6,326,852 
 
 
 14.04 
 
 
 12.20 
 
 
 10,972,457 
 
 
 September 
 
 17.55 
 
 
 15.98 
 
 
 9,790,719 
 
 
 14.39 
 
 
 12.81 
 
 
 15,999,741 
 
 
 October 
 
 16.65 
 
 
 15.85 
 
 
 4,882,533 
 
 
 13.35 
 
 
 12.285 
 
 
 8,666,482 
 
 
 November 
 
 16.46 
 
 
 15.055 
 
 
 6,040,012 
 
 
 12.78 
 
 
 11.67 
 
 
 9,299,127 
 
 
 December 
 
 15.23 
 
 
 13.86 
 
 
 6,239,083 
 
 
 11.99 
 
 
 10.76 
 
 
 11,484,969 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 
 15.17 
 
 
 13.55 
 
 
 11,682,734 
 
 
 12.10 
 
 
 10.90 
 
 
 13,702,823 
 
 
 February 
 
 14.08 
 
 
 12.00 
 
 
 10,550,537 
 
 
 11.45 
 
 
 9.51 
 
 
 14,528,834 
 
 
 March(1) 
 
 13.11 
 
 
 12.18 
 
 
 6,913,365 
 
 
 10.17 
 
 
 9.38 
 
 
 12,958,056 
 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 Up to and including March 27,
2018.
The closing price of the Osisko Shares on the TSX on March 27,
2018 was $12.41. The closing price of the Osisko Shares on the NYSE on March 27,
2018 was US$9.65. 
Warrants 
Osisko has two series of warrants currently listed on the TSX
under the symbol “OR.WT” and “OR.WT.A”. The following table sets forth the price
range and trading volume for the warrants on the TSX, for the periods
indicated.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 OR.WT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OR.WTA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 
 Low 
 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 High 
 
 
 Low 
 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 
 3.14 
 
 
 2.62 
 
 
 58,494 
 
 
 2.40 
 
 
 2.05 
 
 
 368,225 
 
 
 February 
 
 3.22 
 
 
 2.55 
 
 
 42,100 
 
 
 2.57 
 
 
 1.90 
 
 
 153,025 
 
 
 March 
 
 3.15 
 
 
 2.70 
 
 
 81,095 
 
 
 2.35 
 
 
 1.80 
 
 
 54,600 
 
 
 April 
 
 2.80 
 
 
 2.45 
 
 
 57,164 
 
 
 2.30 
 
 
 1.77 
 
 
 47,250 
 
 
 May 
 
 2.70 
 
 
 2.35 
 
 
 29,500 
 
 
 2.15 
 
 
 1.70 
 
 
 44,850 
 
 
 June 
 
 2.88 
 
 
 2.40 
 
 
 42,740 
 
 
 2.96 
 
 
 1.82 
 
 
 146,552 
 
 
 July 
 
 2.93 
 
 
 2.55 
 
 
 21,475 
 
 
 2.85 
 
 
 2.40 
 
 
 20,150 
 

 
 August 
 
 3.09 
 
 
 2.71 
 
 
 191,199 
 
 
 3.13 
 
 
 2.42 
 
 
 73,550 
 
 
 September 
 
 3.19 
 
 
 2.65 
 
 
 68,855 
 
 
 3.23 
 
 
 2.25 
 
 
 86,000 
 
 
 October 
 
 2.75 
 
 
 2.50 
 
 
 27,300 
 
 
 2.65 
 
 
 2.22 
 
 
 58,350 
 
 
 November 
 
 2.65 
 
 
 2.25 
 
 
 31,010 
 
 
 2.20 
 
 
 1.85 
 
 
 23,057 
 
 
 December 
 
 2.40 
 
 
 2.00 
 
 
 42,000 
 
 
 1.90 
 
 
 1.18 
 
 
 151,513 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 
 2.40 
 
 
 2.06 
 
 
 36,000 
 
 
 1.46 
 
 
 0.95 
 
 
 153,530 
 
 
 February 
 
 2.20 
 
 
 1.75 
 
 
 30,983 
 
 
 1.05 
 
 
 0.53 
 
 
 188,689 
 
 
 March(1) 
 
 1.73 
 
 
 1.51 
 
 
 18,260 
 
 
 0.75 
 
 
 0.55 
 
 
 55,503 
 

 
 (1) 
 
 Up to and including March 27, 2018
.

61 

The closing prices of the warrants “OR.WT” and “OR.WT.A” on the
TSX on March 27, 2018 were respectively $1.58 and $0.62. 
Debentures 
The Debentures are listed on the TSX under the symbol “OR.DB”
since November 3, 2017. 

 
 
 
 OR.DB
 
 
 
 
 
 High 
 
 
 Low 
 
 
 Volume 
 
 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (C$) 
 
 
 (#) 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 November 
 
 105.25 
 
 
 104.00 
 
 
 560,395 
 
 
 December 
 
 104.50 
 
 
 102.80 
 
 
 90,220 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 January 
 
 105.00 
 
 
 102.00 
 
 
 1,305,800 
 
 
 February 
 
 103.50 
 
 
 99.50 
 
 
 176,520
 
 
 March(1) 
 
 101.00 
 
 
 98.50 
 
 
 60,990
 

 
 (1) 
 
 Up to and including March 27,
2018.
The closing price of the Debentures on the TSX on March 27,
2018 was $98.75. 
Prior Sales - Securities Not Listed or Quoted on a
Marketplace 
The only securities of Osisko that are outstanding but not
listed or quoted on a marketplace are the RQ Debenture, the Osisko Options and
the Replacement Osisko Options. 
RQ Debenture 
On February 12, 2016, Ressources Québec, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Investissement Québec, subscribed to the RQ Debenture. Ressources
Québec will be entitled, at its option, to convert the RQ Debenture into Osisko
Shares at a price of $19.08 per Osisko Share at any time during its term. 
Options 
The following table sets forth the number of options granted
during the most recently completed financial year, the date of grant and the
exercise price thereof. 

 
 Date of Grant 
 Number of Options 
 Exercise Price Per Option

 
 March 20, 2017 
 36,600 
 $14.78 
 
 June 7, 2017 
 726,800 
 $16.66 
62 

DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
Name, Address, Occupation and Security Holdings 
The following table sets out the Osisko directors and officers,
together with their province or state and country of residence, positions and
offices held, principal occupations during the last five years, the years in
which they were first appointed as directors and/or officers of Osisko and the
number of Osisko Shares, Osisko RSUs, Osisko DSUs, Osisko Options, Warrants,
Debentures and Replacement Osisko Options beneficially owned, directly or
indirectly, or over which control or direction is exercised by them, as of the
date of this Annual Information Form.

 
 Name and place of
 residence 
 Principal
 occupations during the last five (5) years(5)
 
 Director
 and/or Officer since 
 Securities of
 Osisko beneficially owned 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sean Roosen(4) Québec, Canada
 Chair and Chief Executive Officer 
 
 Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko; prior to
 June 2014, President and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko Mining
 Corporation. 
 2014 
 426,187 Osisko Shares 112,494 Osisko RSUs
 585,000 Osisko Options 
 
 Joanne Ferstman(1,3) Ontario, Canada
 Lead Director 
 
 Chartered Professional Accountant and Corporate Director;
 Prior to June 2012, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dundee
 Capital Markets Inc., an investment dealer; prior to January 2011,
 Vice-Chair and Head of Capital Markets of DundeeWealth Inc., a wealth
 management company. 
 2014 
 14,500 Osisko Shares 54,628 Osisko DSUs
 2,500 Osisko Warrants $100,000 Osisko Debentures 
 
 Françoise Bertrand(3,4) Québec, Canada
 Director 
 
 Currently serves as chair of the boards of directors of
 Proaction International and Via Rail Canada. Former President and Chief
 Executive Officer of the Fédération des chambres de commerce du
 Québec (FCCQ) and director of numerous boards of profit and non-profit
 organizations; former Chair of Canadian Radio-television and
 Telecommunications Commission (CRTC). 
 2014 
 1,200 Osisko Shares 36,179 Osisko DSUs
 
 
 Victor H. Bradley(1,3) Monte Carlo, Monaco
 Director 
 
 Chartered Professional Accountant and Corporate Director;
 Chair of Osisko Mining Corporation prior to June 2014. 
 2014 
 3,000 Osisko Shares 36,385 Osisko DSUs
 
 
 John F. Burzynski(4,5) Ontario, Canada
 Director 
 
 President and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko Mining;
 prior to August 2016, Senior Vice President, New Business Development of
 Osisko; prior to June 2014, Vice President, Business Development of Osisko
 Mining Corporation. 
 2014 
 18,805 Osisko Shares 16,796 Osisko RSUs
 7,265 Osisko DSUs 266,533 Osisko Options 5,000 Osisko Warrants
 
 
 Pierre Chenard(2) Québec, Canada
 Director 
 
 Vice President, Business Development and General Counsel,
 Aluminium at Rio Tinto. 
 2017 
 12,379 Osisko DSUs 
 
 Bryan A. Coates Québec, Canada President 
 
 President of Osisko; prior to June 2014, Vice President,
 Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Osisko Mining Corporation. 
 2014 
 126,128 Osisko Shares 101,677 Osisko RSUs
 478,500 Osisko Options 5,000 Osisko Warrants $410,000 Osisko
 Debentures 
 
 Christopher C. Curfman(2,4) Illinois, United
 States of America Director 
 
 Former Senior Vice President of Caterpillar Inc. and
 former President of Caterpillar Global Mining. 
 2016 
 5,500 Osisko Shares 19,708 Osisko DSUs
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante Québec, Canada Vice President, Corporate 
 Development 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development of Osisko; Senior
 Advisor, Investment and Corporate Development of Osisko Mining Corporation
 from November 2010 to June 2014; Analyst in the Global Metals & Mining Investment
 Banking Group at BMO Capital Markets prior to that. 
 2014 
 4,888 Osisko Shares 44,254 Osisko RSUs
 
 229,200 Osisko Options 
 $25,000 Osisko 
 Debentures 
63 

 
 Name and place of
 residence 
 
 Principal occupations during the last five (5)
 years(5) 
 Director
 and/or Officer since 
 Securities of Osisko
 beneficially owned 
 
 André Gaumond(4,5) Québec, Canada
 Director 
 
 While he retired from his executive position in November
 2016 he remains a member of the Board of Directors; Senior Vice President,
 Northern Development of Osisko prior to November 2016; President and Chief
 Executive Officer of Virginia prior to February 2015.
 2015 
 700,634 Osisko Shares 26,310 Osisko RSUs
 7,265 Osisko DSUs 87,345 Replacement Osisko Options
 148,300 Osisko Options $200,000 Osisko Debentures 
 
 Pierre Labbé(1,2) Québec, Canada
 Director 
 
 Chief Financial Officer of Immunovaccine Inc.; from April
 2015 to March 2017, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary
 of Leddartech Inc.; from October 2013 to April 2015, Vice President and
 Chief Financial Officer of Québec Port Authority and prior to October
 2013, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Medicago Inc. 
 2015 
 6,145 Osisko Shares 26,518 Osisko DSUs
 14,524 Replacement Osisko Options 1,000 Osisko Warrants
 $25,000 Osisko Debentures 
 
 André Le Bel Québec, Canada Vice President,
 Legal Affairs and Corporate Secretary 
 
 Vice President, Legal Affairs and Corporate Secretary of
 Osisko; prior to June 2014, Vice President, Legal Affairs and Corporate
 Secretary of Osisko Mining Corporation.
 2015 
 37,933 Osisko Shares 66,076 Osisko RSUs
 194,600 Osisko Options $25,000 Osisko Debentures 
 
 Oskar Lewnowski New York, United States of America
 Director 
 
 Founder and Chief Investment Officer of Orion Resource
 Partners. 
 2017 
 12,379 Osisko DSUs 
 
 Luc Lessard Québec, Canada Senior Vice
 President, Technical Services 
 
 Senior Vice President, Technical Services of Osisko;
 President and Chief Executive Officer of Falco; prior to June 16, 2014,
 Chief Operating Officer of the Canadian Malartic Partnership (owned
 jointly by Agnico and Yamana) and Chief Operating Officer and Senior
 Vice-President of Osisko Mining Corporation. 
 2015 
 27,669 Osisko Shares 91,285 Osisko RSUs
 192,300 Osisko Options 
 
 Elif Lévesque Québec, Canada Chief Financial
 Officer and Vice President, Finance 
 
 Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance of
 Osisko; prior to June 16, 2014, Vice President and Controller of Osisko
 Mining Corporation.
 2014 
 8,069 Osisko Shares 70,243 Osisko RSUs
 329,900 Osisko Options $50,000 Osisko Debentures 
 
 Vincent Metcalfe Québec, Canada Vice
 President, Investor Relations 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations of Osisko; Chief
 Financial Officer of Falco; prior to November 2016, Director of Evaluation
 of Osisko; prior to January 2015, Investment Banker with Desjardins
 Securities. 
 2016 
 4,665 Osisko Shares 36,225
 Osisko RSUs 71,800 Osisko Options $30,000 Osisko Debentures
 
 
 Charles E. Page(2,3,5) Ontario, Canada
 Director 
 
 Corporate Director and Professional Geologist; Former
 director of Osisko Mining Corporation; President and Chief Executive
 Officer of Queenston Mining Inc. prior to its acquisition by Osisko Mining
 Corporation. 
 2014 
 55,215 Osisko Shares 36,385 Osisko DSUs
 
 
 Jacques Perron(1,2) Colorado, United States of 
 America Director 
 
 Director of Centerra Gold since October 2016; former
 Chief Executive Officer of Thompson Creek Metals Company Inc. from 2013 to
 2016; President and Chief Executive Officer of St-Andrew Goldfields from
 2007 to 2013. 
 2016 
 11,590 Osisko Shares 18,246 Osisko DSUs
 
64 

 
 Name and place of
 residence 
 Principal
 occupations during the last five (5) years(5) 
 Director and/or Officer
 since 
 Securities of
 Osisko beneficially owned 
 
 
 
 
 Frédéric Ruel Québec, Canada Vice
 President and Corporate Controller 
 Vice President, Corporate Controller of
 Osisko and Falco; from January 2015 to November 2016, Corporate Controller
 of Osisko; from May 2015 to November 2016, Corporate Controller of Falco;
 from January 2011 to June 2014, Director, Corporate Reporting of Osisko
 Mining Corporation and of Canadian Malartic GP from June 2014 to November
 2014. 
 2016 
 3,688 Osisko Shares 39,477 Osisko
 RSUs 105,700 Osisko Options $50,000 Osisko Debentures
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 Member of the Osisko Audit Committee.
 
 
 (2) 
 
 Member of the Osisko Governance and Nomination
 Committee.
 
 
 (3) 
 
 Member of the Osisko Human Resources Committee.
 
 
 (4) 
 
 Member of the Sustainability Committee.
 
 
 (5) 
 
 Member of the Investment Committee.
 
 
 (6) 
 
 The information as to principal occupations has been
 furnished by each director and/or officer
individually.
Biographic Notes 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer 
Mr. Sean Roosen is Chair of the Osisko Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Osisko since June 2014. Prior to this, Mr. Roosen was the
President and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko Mining Corporation. He led the
transition of Osisko Mining Corporation from a junior exploration company to a
leading intermediate gold producer. He was responsible for leading the strategic
development of Osisko Mining Corporation and was instrumental in securing the
necessary financing to fund the development of the $1 billion Canadian Malartic
Mine. Mr. Roosen is an active participant in the resource sector and in the
formation of new companies to explore for mineral deposits both in Canada and
internationally. During 2017, Mr. Roosen received an award from Mines and Money
Americas for best Chief Executive Officer in North America and was in addition
named in the “Top 20 Most Influential Individuals in Global Mining”. In prior
years, he has been recognized by several organizations for his entrepreneurial
successes and his leadership in innovative sustainability practices. Mr. Roosen
is a Supervisory Board member of EurAsia Resource Holdings AG, a European based
resource venture capital fund and a director of EurAsia Resource Value SE and is
a member of the board of directors of Condor Petroleum Inc. Mr. Roosen also
serves on the board of directors of: Barkerville (Chair), Dalradian Resources
Inc., Falco (Chair) and Osisko Mining (Chair) as a representative of Osisko. Mr.
Roosen is a graduate of the Haileybury School of Mines. 
Joanne Ferstman, CPA, CA, Independent Lead Director

Ms. Joanne Ferstman is a corporate director, sitting on a
number of public company boards. From 2013 to 2014, Ms. Ferstman was a Director
of Osisko Mining Corporation. Ms. Ferstman was until June 2012 the President and
Chief Executive Officer of Dundee Capital Markets Inc., a full service
investment dealer with principal businesses that include investment banking,
institutional sales and trading and private client financial advisory. She has
also held several leadership positions within Dundee Corporation and
DundeeWealth Inc., where she was responsible for strategic development,
financial and regulatory reporting and risk management.
Ms. Ferstman currently serves as Chair of the board of Dream
Unlimited Corp. and as Chair of its Audit Committee and a member of its
Organization and Culture Committee and Leaders and Mentors Committee, as trustee
of Dream Office Trust and as Chair of its Audit Committee, and as a director of
Cogeco Communications Inc. and a member of its Audit Committee. She served on
the board of directors of Aimia Inc. from June 2008 to June 2017. Ms. Ferstman
holds a Bachelor of Commerce and a Graduate degree in Public Accountancy from
McGill University and is a Chartered Professional Accountant. 
65 

Françoise Bertrand, O.C., C.Q., Independent Director

Ms. Françoise Bertrand was appointed to the Board of Directors
of Osisko in November 2014. In 2017, she was appointed as lead of Via Rail
Canada’s board of directors and as Chair of the board of directors of Proaction
International. She currently serves as an Officer of the Order of Canada, Ms.
Bertrand was formerly the President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Fédération des chambres de commerce du Québec (FCCQ). She sits on
numerous boards of directors of profit and non-profit organizations, including
Valeurs mobilières Desjardins and Concordia University. Ms. Bertrand was also a
former Chair of Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission
(CRTC). 
Ms. Bertrand holds a Bachelor of Arts - Major in Sociology from
Université de Montréal and a Master’s degree in Environmental Studies from York
University. She is a graduate from the Directors Education Program sponsored by
the Institute of Directors of Canada and the Rotman School of Management -
McGill. She is also a Chevalier of l’Ordre national du Québec. 
Victor H. Bradley, CPA, CA, Independent Director

Mr. Victor H. Bradley brings over 50 years of experience in the
international mining sector. A Chartered Professional Accountant, he began his
career with positions such as Controller and Chief Financial Officer at a number
of mining companies. In 1994, he founded Yamana and worked as Chief Executive
Officer, Director, Chairman and Lead Director. Mr. Bradley was a director of Rio
Verde Development Corp. (now B&A Fertilizers Ltd.) until March 2013 and
currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sunvest Minerals Corp.
From 2006 to 2014, Mr. Bradley was Chair of the board of directors of Osisko
Mining Corporation. Mr. Bradley served on the board of directors of several
other junior mining exploration companies. Educated in England, Mr. Bradley is a
member of the Ordre des comptables professionnels agréés du Québec since
the 1960s.
John F. Burzynski, M.Sc., P.Geo., Director 
Mr. John F. Burzynski has been a Director of Osisko since June
2014. He was also Senior Vice President, New Business Development of Osisko from
June 2014 to August 2016. He is President and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko
Mining since August 2015. From 2004 to 2014, Mr. Burzynski was the Vice
President, Business Development of Osisko Mining Corporation.Mr. Burzynski has
over 25 years of experience as a professional geologist on international mining
and development projects. From 2011 to 2016, he served on the board of directors
of Condor Petroleum Inc. He currently serves on the boards of directors of
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd., Osisko Metals Incorporated and Strongbow
Exploration Inc. Mr. Burzynski is also a founding member of EurAsia Resource
Holdings AG, a European based resource venture capital fund. Mr. Burzynski holds
a Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in geology from Mount Allison University,
and a Master of Science degree in exploration and mineral economics from Queen’s
University. He is a registered P.Geo. in the province of Québec. 
Pierre Chenard, LL.B., Director 
Mr. Pierre Chenard has been Vice President, Business
Development and General Counsel, Aluminium at Rio Tinto since 2011. Mr. Chenard
has held progressive roles in both the corporate development and legal areas,
including General Counsel, Rio Tinto Global Aluminium and Canada, Vice President
and General Counsel at Alcan Inc. and Vice President and Head of Corporate
Development at Cambior Inc. Mr. Chenard was appointed to the Osisko Board in
accordance with an investment agreement entered into with the CDPQ. Mr. Chenard
earned Civil and Common Law degrees from McGill University and has been a member
of the Quebec Bar since 1984. 
66 

Bryan A. Coates, CPA, CA, ICD.D, President 
Mr. Bryan A. Coates has been President of Osisko since June
2014. From 2007 to 2014, he was the Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
Officer of Osisko Mining Corporation. Mr. Coates was responsible for all
activities related to financing, financial reporting, marketing relating to the
gold industry, risk management and government relations. Mr. Coates has more
than 30 years of progressive experience within the international and Canadian
mining industry. Before joining Osisko, he was Chief Financial Officer of
IAMGOLD Corporation, Cambior Inc., and Compañia Minera Antamina. Mr. Coates
serves on the board of directors of Falco, Alio Gold Inc. and of Golden Queen
Mining Co. Ltd. Mr. Coates holds an Honours Bachelor of Commerce from Laurentian
University, is a member of the Chartered Professional Accountants of Ontario and
obtained the ICD.D designation from the Institute of Corporate Directors. 
Christopher C. Curfman, B.Sc., Independent Director

Mr. Christopher C. Curfman was elected to the Board of
Directors of Osisko in May 2016. Mr. Curfman is a retired senior executive of
Caterpillar Inc., one of the world’s largest suppliers to the mining industry.
During his 21-year career with Caterpillar, Mr. Curfman has held several
progressive positions in Asia, Australia and USA, including Senior Vice
President of Caterpillar and President of Caterpillar Global Mining from 2011 to
his retirement at the end of 2015. Mr. Curfman also held senior positions with
Deere & Company prior to joining Caterpillar. He has extensive international
experience and a customer focused legacy at Caterpillar. His global leadership
was key to Caterpillar’s success in the mining industry. He also served as a
board member at various organisations, including the Canadian Institute of
Mining, the National Mining Association, the World Coal Association and several
universities. 
Mr. Curfman holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Education
from Northwestern University and has completed certificate programs in
accounting and finance from the Wharton School of Business, University of
Pennsylvania in 1991, a three-year executive program from Louisiana State
University in 1997 and the executive program of Stanford Graduate School of
Business in 2002. He was also awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Mining
Engineering from the University Missouri-Rolla in 2013. 
Joseph de la Plante, B. Eng., Vice President, Corporate
Development 
Mr. Joseph de la Plante has been Vice President, Corporate
Development of Osisko since June 2014. Prior to this, Mr. de la Plante held the
position of Senior Advisor, Investment and Corporate Development of Osisko
Mining Corporation since November 2010, where he played a key role in the
company’s investor relations and corporate development efforts, including
certain aspects of the company’s long-term financial planning. Before joining
Osisko in 2010, he was an Analyst in BMO Capital Markets’ Global Metals &
Mining Investment Banking Group in Toronto, where he worked in an advisory role
on merger and acquisition mandates as well as equity and debt offerings for
various producing and development stage gold companies. He currently serves on
the board of directors of Aquila Resources Inc. and the Québec Mineral
Exploration Association. Mr. de la Plante holds a Bachelor of Mechanical
Engineering from McGill University. 
André Gaumond, M.Sc. Eng., Director
Mr. André Gaumond was Senior Vice President, Northern
Development and Director of Osisko until he retired from his executive position
in November 2016. A geological engineer by training, Mr. Gaumond has been
recognized by several organizations for his entrepreneurial and geological
achievements. Mr. Gaumond has been the founder and Chief Executive Officer of
Virginia Gold Mines Inc. which discovered the Éléonore deposit, and was later
sold to Goldcorp Inc. He continued his geological work in the James Bay area
through Virginia which had retained a royalty on Éléonore, and concluded
business combination with Osisko in February 2015. He has extensive experience
in the strategic development, financing and execution of search programs for new
mineral deposits. He has also been recognized for his leadership role in various
sustainability initiatives, including the recognition for the creation of
Fonds Restor-Action Nunavik. Mr. Gaumond was a nominee to Osisko Board by
Virginia as part of the Osisko-Virginia business combination. He currently serves as on the board of
directors of Altius Minerals Corporation, Harfang Exploration Inc. and Junex
Inc. 
67 

Mr. Gaumond holds a Bachelor of Geological Engineering from
 Université Laval and a Master degree in Geological Engineering from
 École Polytechnique. He is a member of Ordre des géologues du
Québec and of Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec. 
Pierre Labbé, CPA, CA, ICD.D, Independent Director

Mr. Pierre Labbé is Chief Financial Officer of Immunovaccine
Inc. and was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Leddartech Inc. from
April 2015 to March 2017. He has more than 25 years of progressive financial
leadership roles in various industries. He was Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Québec Port Authority (October 2013-April 2015), and
has experience in the resource sector, having served as Chief Financial Officer
of Plexmar Resources (2007-2012), Sequoia Minerals (2003-2004), and Mazarin Inc.
(2000-2003). Mr. Labbé, in his role as senior financial officer, has
participated in the development of strategic plans and in mergers and
acquisitions (over $1 billion in transactions). Mr. Labbé was a nominee to
Osisko Board by Virginia as part of the Virginia Arrangement. 
Mr. Labbé holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration
and a license in accounting from Université Laval, Québec City. He is a member of
Ordre des comptables professionnels agréés du Québec, the Chartered
Professional Accountants of Canada and the Institute of Corporate Directors. 
André Le Bel, LL.B., B.Sc.A, ICD.D, Vice President, Legal
Affairs and Corporate Secretary 
Mr. André Le Bel has been appointed Vice President, Legal
Affairs and Corporate Secretary of Osisko on February 17, 2015. From November
2007 to June 2014, Mr. Le Bel was Vice President, Legal Affairs and Corporate
Secretary of Osisko Mining Corporation. Mr. Le Bel was Vice President Legal
affairs with IAMGOLD Corporation from November 2006 to October 2007 and before
November 2006, Mr. Le Bel was Senior Legal Counsel and Assistant Corporate
Secretary of Cambior Inc. Mr. Le Bel was a director of RedQuest Capital Corp.
until June 2017 and currently serves on the board of directors of Komet
Resources Inc., listed on the TSX Venture Exchange. Mr. Le Bel was Vice
President, Legal Affairs and Corporate Secretary of NioGold from March 20, 2015
to March 11, 2016 and Corporate Secretary of Falco from November 24, 2015 to
November 22, 2016. Since that date, he is Vice President, Legal Affairs and
Corporate Secretary of Falco. Mr. Le Bel was also a director and a member of the
audit committee of Threegold Resources Inc. from May 2011 to June 2013. Mr. Le
Bel obtained a Bachelor of Applied Science from Université Laval and a Bachelor
of Law from Sherbrooke University. He is a member of the Québec Bar and has
recently obtained the ICD.D designation from the Institute of Corporate
Directors. 
Oskar Lewnowski, BS/BA, MBA, Director
Mr. Oskar Lewnowski is the founder and Chief Investment Officer
of Orion Resource Partners. Prior to Orion, Mr. Lewnowski was a founding partner
of the Red Kite Group and the Chief Investment Officer of the mine finance
business. Before this, Mr. Lewnowski was a Director for Corporate Development at
Varomet Ltd, a metals processor and merchant banking firm. While at Varomet, he
was responsible for seven acquisitions and divestitures and business operations
(offtake agreements, mining and processing). He was also responsible for
structuring metal offtake agreements and other physical market transactions.
Before this, Mr. Lewnowski was a Vice President for Credit Suisse First Boston
in London, where he was responsible for preparing growth companies for public
distribution of their securities. Until 1993, he held various positions in
trading as well as mergers and acquisitions at Deutsche Bank both in New York
and Frankfurt culminating in his founding membership of the Deutsche Capital
Markets Division.
Mr. Lewnowski was appointed to the Osisko Board in accordance
with the Orion Transaction as a nominee as nominee of Betelgeuse LLC, Osisko’s
largest shareholder. 
68

Luc Lessard, Eng., Senior Vice President, Technical
Services 
Mr. Luc Lessard is a mining engineer with more than 25 years of
experience designing, building and operating mines. He is President and Chief
Executive Officer of Falco. He was previously Chief Operating Officer of the
Canadian Malartic Partnership (owned jointly by Agnico and Yamana), and prior to
that was the Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President of Engineering
and Construction for Osisko Mining Corporation where he was responsible for the
design, construction and commissioning of the Canadian Malartic gold mine.
During his career, Mr. Lessard has worked on 11 open pit and underground mine
builds and prior to Osisko, Mr. Lessard was Vice President of Engineering and
Construction for IAMGOLD Corporation and General Manager, Projects for Cambior
Inc. From July 2014 to May 2016, he served on the board of directors of Alio
Gold Inc. Mr. Lessard is also Chief Operating Officer of Barkerville and
currently serves on the board of directors of Osisko Metals Incorporated,
Nighthawk Gold Corp. and Highland. Mr. Lessard holds a B.Sc. Mining Engineering
from Université Laval and he is a member of l’Ordre des ingénieurs du
Québec. 
Elif Lévesque, CPA, CGA, MBA, ICD.D, Chief Financial
Officer and Vice President Finance 
Ms. Elif Lévesque is the Chief Financial Officer and Vice
President Finance of Osisko since June 2014. Prior to this, Ms. Lévesque was
Vice President and Controller of Osisko Mining Corporation and has contributed
to the development of the financial reporting and planning functions at Osisko
since 2008. Ms. Lévesque has over 15 years of experience with leading Canadian
intermediate gold producers (Cambior Inc. 2002-2006 and IAMGOLD Corporation
2006-2008). She currently serves on the board of directors of TerraX Minerals
Inc. She is a member of the Ordre des Comptables Professionnels Agréés du
Québec, holds an MBA from Clark University, Massachusetts, USA and has
recently obtained the ICD.D designation from the Institute of Corporate
Directors.
Vincent Metcalfe, BAA, Finance, Vice President, Investor
Relations 
Mr. Vincent Metcalfe has been appointed as Vice President,
Investor Relations of Osisko on November 9, 2016. Mr. Metcalfe is also the Chief
Financial Officer of Falco. Prior to that, he was acting as Director of
Evaluations with Osisko since February 2015. Mr. Metcalfe is a graduate of HEC
Montreal. Prior to joining Osisko, he spent nine (9) years assisting mining
companies in investment banking at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto before moving
to Desjardins Capital Markets, where he was most recently a Director in the
Montreal office. 
Charles E. Page, M.Sc., P.Geo., Director
Mr. Charles E. Page is a Professional Geologist and has more
than 40 years of experience in the mineral industry. During his career, Mr. Page
has held progressive leadership roles in developing strategies to explore,
finance and develop mineral properties in Canada and internationally. Mr. Page
worked at Queenston Mining Inc. in various capacities, including President and
Chief Executive Officer, from 1990 to its sale to Osisko Mining Corporation in
2012. Mr. Page also serves on the board of directors of Unigold Inc. and is
Chair of the board of directors of Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd. Mr. Page holds a
Bachelor of Science degree in Geological Science from Brock University and a
Master of Science degree in Earth Science from the University of Waterloo. He is
a Professional Geologist registered in the province of Ontario and Saskatchewan
and is also a Fellow of the Geological Association of Canada. 
Jacques Perron, B.Sc. Eng., P.Eng., Independent Director

Mr. Jacques Perron has more than 30 years of progressive
experience in the mining industry. He was most recently the Chief Executive
Officer of Thompson Creek Metals Company Inc. (from 2013 to 2016) where he
oversaw the start-up and ramp-up of the Mount Milligan Mine and was instrumental
in the sale of Thompson Creek Metals Company Inc. to Centerra Gold Inc.
(“Centerra Gold”). Previously, he held the position of President and
Chief Executive Officer of St. Andrew Goldfields (from 2007 to 2013), Senior
Vice President of IAMGOLD Corporation (from 2006 to 2007) and Senior Vice
President Canada of Cambior Inc. (from 2004 to 2006). He is a member of the board of
directors of Centerra Gold since October 2016, and is also a director of the
Canadian Mineral Education Foundation since 2007. Mr. Perron holds a Bachelor of
Science degree in Mining Engineering from l’École Polytechnique de Montréal and
has membership in Professional Engineers of Ontario and l’Ordre des
Ingénieurs du Québec.
69

Frédéric Ruel, CPA, CA, Vice President, Corporate
Controller 
Mr. Frédéric Ruel was appointed as Vice President, Corporate
Controller of Osisko on November 9, 2016. Frédéric Ruel has over 15 years of
experience in financial reporting and has been involved in the mining industry
for over 10 years. Prior to joining Osisko, he held the position of Director,
Corporate Reporting for Canadian Malartic GP, Osisko Mining Corporation and
Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines. Mr. Ruel was Vice President, Corporate
Controller of Falco from November 2016 to July 2017 and Chief Financial Officer
of NioGold Mining Corporation from March 2015 to March 2016. Mr. Ruel began his
career as an auditor in a premier Canadian accounting firm where he worked for
seven (7) years. He is a member of the Ordre des comptables professionnels
agréés du Québec and holds a Master in Accounting from Sherbrooke
University.
The directors of Osisko will be elected annually at each annual
general meeting of the Osisko Shareholders and will hold office until the next
annual general meeting unless a director’s office is earlier vacated in
accordance with the articles of Osisko or until his or her successor is duly
appointed or elected.
As at the date of this Annual Information Form, all of the
directors and officers, as a group, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, or
exercise control or direction over 1,455,816 Osisko Shares, representing
approximately 0.93% of the issued and outstanding Osisko Shares. 
Cease Trade Orders, Bankruptcies, Penalties or Sanctions

Corporate Cease Trade Orders
As at the date of this Annual Information Form, no current
director or executive officer of Osisko is, or within the ten years prior to the
date of this Annual Information Form has been, a director, chief executive
officer or chief financial officer of any company (including Osisko), that:

 
 
 (a) 
 
 was subject to a cease trade order (including any
 management cease trade order which applied to directors or executive
 officers of a company, whether or not the person is named in the order),
 an order similar to a cease trade order, or an order that denied the
 relevant company access to any exemption under securities legislation,
 that was in effect for a period of more than 30 consecutive days (an
 “Order”) while that person was acting in that capacity;
or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 was subject to an Order that was issued after the current
 director or executive officer ceased to be a director, chief executive
 officer or chief financial officer and which resulted from an event that
 occurred while that person was acting in the capacity as director, chief
 executive officer or chief financial officer.
Bankruptcy
To the knowledge of Osisko, as at the date of this Annual
Information Form, no current director, executive officer, or shareholder holding
a sufficient number of securities of Osisko to affect materially the control of
Osisko is, or within the ten years prior to the date of this Annual Information
Form has: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 been a director or executive officer of any company
 (including Osisko) that, while that person was acting in that capacity, or
 within a year of that person ceasing to act in that capacity, became
 bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation relating to bankruptcy or
 insolvency or was subject to or instituted any proceedings, arrangement or
 compromise with creditors or had a receiver, receiver manager or trustee
 appointed to hold its assets; or

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 become bankrupt, made a proposal under any legislation
 relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, or become subject to or instituted
 any proceedings, arrangement or compromise with creditors, or had a
 receiver manager or trustee appointed to hold the assets of the current or
 proposed director, executive officer or
shareholder.
70

Penalties and Sanctions
To the knowledge of Osisko, as at the date of this Annual
Information Form, no current director, executive officer, or shareholder holding
a sufficient number of securities of Osisko to affect materially the control of
Osisko has been subject to any penalties or sanctions imposed by a court
relating to securities legislation or by a securities regulatory authority or
has entered into a settlement agreement with a securities regulatory authority
or any other penalties or sanctions imposed by a court or regulatory body that
would likely be considered important to a reasonable investor in making an
investment decision.
Conflicts of Interest
Certain of the directors and officers of Osisko will not be
devoting all of their time to the affairs of Osisko. Certain of the directors
and officers of Osisko are directors and officers of other companies, some of
which are in the same business as Osisko. See “Risk Factors”. 
The directors and officers of Osisko are required by law to act
in the best interests of Osisko. They have the same obligations to the other
companies in respect of which they act as directors and officers. Any decision
made by any of such officers or directors involving Osisko will be made in
accordance with their duties and obligations under the applicable laws of
Canada. 
As part of its business model and in connection with its
investments made in various other companies, either by acquiring equity
interests, purchasing royalties, streams or other interests or options thereon
or otherwise, Osisko generally expects from its directors and officers to be
actively involved within such investee companies, which may include occupying
seats on their board of directors. Osisko acknowledges that a director or an
officer serving on too many public boards of directors might be “overboarded”.
Consequently, all directors and officers of Osisko must submit to the Governance
and Nomination Committee any offer to join an outside board of directors in
order to ensure that any additional directorship would not impair the ability to
adequately fulfill the responsibilities assigned to the directors and officers
of the Corporation. 
As a general guideline, the Governance and Nomination Committee
of Osisko will consider that a director or officer of Osisko should be regarded
as “overboarded” if he or she: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 has attended fewer than 75% of Osisko’s board and
 committee meetings held within the past year without a valid reason for
 the absences;
and

 
 
 (b) 
 
 

 
 
 (i) 
 
 is the President or Chief Executive Officer of Osisko, he
 or she sits on more than two (2) outside public company board, in addition
 to Osisko; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 if not the President or Chief Executive Officer of
 Osisko, sits on more than five (5) public company boards, in addition to
 Osisko.
In determining what is an “outside public company board”, the
Governance and Nomination Committee specifically excludes investee companies for
the reason that becoming a director of such companies is crucial in order to
oversee and supervise Osisko’s investment in such investee companies. This
representation allows Osisko to protect its shareholders’ interests.
Furthermore, these investee companies are mostly junior exploration companies
which only hold few board meetings each year. 
71

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND REGULATORY ACTIONS
Legal Proceedings
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 and as of the
date hereof, there have been and are no material legal proceedings outstanding,
threatened or pending, by or against Osisko or to which Osisko is a party or to
which any of Osisko’s property is subject, nor to Osisko’s knowledge are any
such legal proceedings contemplated, and which could become material to
Osisko.
Regulatory Actions
During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 and as of the
date hereof, there have been no penalties or sanctions imposed against Osisko
(a) by a court relating to securities legislation or by a securities regulatory
authority or (b) by a court or regulatory body that would likely be considered
important to a reasonable investor making an investment decision in Osisko.
Osisko has not entered into any settlement agreements with a court relating to
securities legislation or with a securities regulatory authority during the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 and as of the date hereof. 
INTEREST OF MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS IN MATERIAL
TRANSACTIONS
Within the three (3) most recently completed financial years or
during the current financial year, no director or executive officer of Osisko,
or shareholder who beneficially owns, or controls or directs, directly or
indirectly, more than 10% of the outstanding Osisko Shares, or any known
associates or affiliates of such persons, has or has had any material interest,
direct or indirect, in any transaction or in any proposed transaction that has
materially affected or is reasonably expected to materially affect Osisko. 
TRANSFER AGENTS AND REGISTRARS
The transfer agent and registrar for the Osisko Shares is AST
Trust Company (Canada), which is located at 2001 University, Suite 1600,
Montreal, Québec, Canada H3A 2A6. 
MATERIAL CONTRACTS
The following are the material contracts entered into by Osisko
or its subsidiaries:

 
 
 (a) 
 
 the Canadian Malartic Royalty Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 the Éléonore Royalty Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 the RQ Subscription Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 the 2015 Underwriting Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 the 2015 Warrant Indenture;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 the 2016 Underwriting Agreement;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 the 2016 Warrant Indenture;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 the Orion Acquisition Agreement;
72

 
 
 (g) 
 
 a subscription agreement dated June 4, 2017 between Fonds
 FTQ and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 a subscription agreement dated June 4, 2017 between CDP
 Investissements Inc. and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 a voting support agreement dated July 31, 2017 between
 Betelgeuse LLC and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) 
 
 a shareholder participation agreement dated July 31, 2017
 between Betelgeuse LLC and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) 
 
 a shareholder rights agreement dated July 31, 2017
 between CDP Investissements Inc. and Osisko;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) 
 
 the 2017 Underwriting Agreement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (m) 
 
 a debenture indenture dated November 3, 2017 between
 Osisko and AST Trust Company (Canada), as debenture trustee, pursuant to
 which the Debentures were created and issued and by which they are
 governed; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (p)
 
 the 2017 Credit Agreement
INTERESTS OF EXPERTS
Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P. Geo, is named in this Annual
Information Form as having reviewed and approved certain scientific and
technical information as set out in this Annual Information Form. 
As of the date of this Annual Information Form, Mr. Guy
Desharnais, Ph.D., P. Geo, beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, less than
1% of Osisko’s outstanding securities including the securities of Osisko’s
associate or affiliate entities. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, a partnership of Chartered
Professional Accountants, the independent auditor of Osisko, has advised that it
is independent with respect to Osisko within the meaning of the Code of
ethics of chartered professional accountants (Québec) and has complied with
the SEC’s rules on auditor independence and Rule 3520 Auditor Independence of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Other than as described above, none of the aforementioned
persons or companies, nor any director, officer or employee of any of the
aforementioned persons or companies is, or is expected to be elected, appointed
or employed as, a director, officer or employee of Osisko or of any associate or
affiliate of Osisko. 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Additional information relating to Osisko, which is not and
shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in this Annual Information
Form, is available electronically on SEDAR at www.sedar.com, on EDGAR at
www.sec.gov and on its website at www.osiskogr.com. 
Additional information, which is not and shall not be deemed to
be incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form, including
directors’ and officers’ remuneration and indebtedness, principal holders of
Osisko’s securities and securities authorized for issuance under equity
compensation plans, is contained in Osisko’s management information circular for
its annual and special meeting of shareholders held on May 4, 2017. For
information relating to corporate governance related matters, please see
“Statement of Corporate Governance Practices” in such circular. 
Additional financial information, which is not and shall not be
deemed to be incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form, is
provided in Osisko’s financial statements and management discussion and analysis
for its most recently completed financial year. 
73

AUDIT COMMITTEE
Description of the Audit Committee
The Osisko Audit Committee assists the Osisko Board in
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to the following: (i) in
its oversight of Osisko’s accounting and financial reporting principles and
policies and internal audit controls and procedures; (ii) in its oversight of
the integrity and transparency of Osisko’s financial statements and the
independent audit thereof; (iii) in selecting, evaluating and, where deemed
appropriate, replacing the external auditor; (iv) in evaluating the independence
of the external auditor; (v) in its oversight of Osisko’s risk identification,
assessment and management program; and (vi) in Osisko’s compliance with legal
and regulatory requirements in respect of the above. The Osisko Board has
adopted the Osisko Audit Committee Charter, a copy of which is attached as
Schedule “A”, mandating the role of the Osisko Audit Committee in supporting the
Osisko Board in meeting its responsibilities to Osisko Shareholders. 
Audit Committee Members
As of the date of this Annual Information Form, the Osisko
Audit Committee is comprised of four (4) members, all of whom are independent
directors of Osisko, namely: Ms. Joanne Ferstman (Chair), Mr. Victor H. Bradley,
Mr. Pierre Labbé and Mr. Jacques Perron. Ms. Ferstman (Chair) is an “audit
committee financial expert” (as such term is defined in paragraph 8(b) of
General Instruction B to Form 40-F under the U.S. Exchange Act). 
Relevant Education and Experience
Joanne Ferstman
Ms. Ferstman (Chair) is a corporate director, sitting on a
number of public company boards. From 2013 to 2014, Ms. Ferstman was a Director
of Osisko Mining Corporation. Ms. Ferstman was until June 2012 the President and
Chief Executive Officer of Dundee Capital Markets Inc., a full service
investment dealer with principal businesses that include investment banking,
institutional sales and trading and private client financial advisory. Prior to
taking this position on January 31, 2011, Ms. Ferstman was Vice-Chair and Head
of Capital Markets of DundeeWealth Inc., a diversified wealth management public
company that managed and advised over $75 billion of assets under management and
administration, including the Dynamic Funds family, at the time it was sold to
the Bank of Nova Scotia in early 2011. Prior to 2009, Ms. Ferstman was Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DundeeWealth Inc. and Executive
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary of Dundee
Corporation. In these senior financial roles, Ms. Ferstman was intimately
involved in all corporate strategy, including acquisitions and financings, and
had responsibility for all public financial reporting. Additionally, Ms.
Ferstman was regularly Dundee’s nominee on investee company boards and audit
committees in both the resources and real estate sectors. 
Over the past 19 years, Ms. Ferstman has held a variety of
executive positions with the Dundee group of companies until her retirement in
June 2012. Prior to joining the Dundee group of companies, Ms. Ferstman spent
four years as Chief Financial Officer for a national securities firm and five
years at a major international accounting firm. Ms. Ferstman currently serves as
a director of Dream Unlimited Corp. and as Chair of its Audit Committee and a
member of its Organization and Culture Committee and Leaders and Mentors
Committee, as trustee of Dream Office Trust and as Chair of its Audit Committee,
and as a director of Cogeco Communications Inc. and a member of its Audit
Committee. She served on the board of directors of Aimia Inc. from June 25, 2008
to June 14, 2017. Ms. Ferstman holds a Bachelor of Commerce and a Graduate
degree in Public Accountancy from McGill University and is a Chartered
Professional Accountant.
Ms. Ferstman is considered to be independent of Osisko and is
financially literate, within the meaning of NI 52-110 and under the U.S.
Exchange Act and NYSE rules. 
74

Victor H. Bradley
Mr. Victor Bradley brings over 50 years of experience in the
international mining sector. A Chartered Professional Accountant, he began his
career with positions such as Controller and Chief Financial Officer at a number
of mining companies. In 1994, he founded Yamana and worked as Chief Executive
Officer, Director, Chairman and Lead Director. Mr. Bradley was a director of Rio
Verde Development Corp. (now B&A Fertilizers Ltd.) until March 2013 and
currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sunvest Minerals Corp.
From 2006 to 2014, Mr. Bradley was Chair of the Board of Directors of Osisko
Mining Corporation. Mr. Bradley served on the board of directors of several
other junior mining exploration companies. Educated in England, Mr. Bradley is a
member of the Ordre des comptables professionnels agréés du Québec since
the 1960s. 
Mr. Bradley is considered to be independent of Osisko and is
financially literate, within the meaning of NI 52-110 and under the U.S.
Exchange Act and NYSE rules. 
Pierre Labbé
Mr. Labbé was appointed to the Board of Directors of Osisko
upon closing of the Virginia Arrangement. Prior to this, Mr. Labbé had been a
Director of Virginia since April 2008 and was the Chairman of Virginia’s Audit
Committee. Mr. Labbé currently serves as the Chief Financial Officer of
Immunovaccine Inc. and has served as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Secretary of Leddartech Inc. from April 2015 to March 2017. He was Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Québec Port Authority from October
2013 to April 2015. From July 2004 to May 2007 and from May 2008 until the
completion of the privatization of Medicago Inc., following the acquisition by
Mitsubushi Tanabe Pharma Corporation for an enterprise value of $357 million, he
was Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of Medicago Inc. Mr. Labbé was also
acting Chief Financial Officer of Plexmar Resources Inc. from May 2007 to
November 2012. He was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Secretary
of Sequoia Minerals Inc. from December 2003 to June 2004, and of Mazarin Inc.
from March 2000 to December 2003, while both companies were listed on the TSX.
Prior to March 2000, he held management positions in accounting and finance
notably with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (formerly Coopers & Lybrand). Mr.
Labbé holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration from Laval
University, Québec City. He is a member of the Ordre des comptables
professionnels agréés du Québec and the Institute of Corporate Directors. He
is also a Director of Agility Health Inc., a rehabilitation services company.

Mr. Labbé is considered to be independent of Osisko and is
financially literate, within the meaning of NI 52-110 and under the U.S.
Exchange Act and NYSE rules. 
Jacques Perron
Mr. Jacques Perron has more than 30 years of progressive
experience in the mining industry. He was most recently the Chief Executive
Officer of Thompson Creek Metals Company Inc. (from 2013 to 2016) where he
oversaw the start-up and ramp-up of the Mount Milligan Mine and was instrumental
in the sale of Thompson Creek Metals Company Inc. to Centerra Gold Inc.
(“Centerra Gold”). Previously, he held the position of President and
Chief Executive Officer of St. Andrew Goldfields (from 2007 to 2013), Senior
Vice President of IAMGOLD Corporation (from 2006 to 2007) and Senior Vice
President Canada of Cambior Inc. (from 2004 to 2006). He is a member of the
board of directors of Centerra Gold since October 2016 and is also a director of
the Canadian Mineral Education Foundation since 2007. Mr. Perron holds a
Bachelor of Science degree in Mining Engineering from l’École Polytechnique de
Montréal and has membership in Professional Engineers of Ontario and l’Ordre
des Ingénieurs du Québec.
Mr. Perron is considered to be independent of Osisko and is
financially literate, within the meaning of NI 52-110 and under the U.S.
Exchange Act and NYSE rules. 
75

External Auditor Service Fees
The fees billed to Osisko by its independent auditor,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, a partnership of Chartered Professional Accountants,
for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, by category,
are as follows: 

 
 Year 
 Audit Fees(1)
 
 Audit Related
 Fees(2) 
 Tax Fees(3)
 
 All Other Fees 
 
 December 31, 2017 
 $1,017,480 
 $112,047 
 $397,685 
 $ - 
 
 December 31, 2016 
 $324,675 
 $8,621 
 $103,660 
 $ - 
 ________________

 
 (1) 
 
 Audit fees were higher in 2017 primarily due to the New
 York Stock Exchange listing, 2017 being the first year of receiving the
 auditor’s opinion on Osisko’s internal control over financial reporting,
 the acquisition of the Orion precious metals portfolio of assets for $1.1
 billion and the services rendered in relation to the management
 information circular dated June 29, 2017, the issuance of convertible
 debentures and the services rendered in relation to the short-form
 prospectus dated October 27, 2017. In 2016 the fees included services for
 the bought deal financing and the services rendered in relation to the
 short-form prospectus dated February 19, 2016. The audit fees also include
 services rendered in connection with the audit of Osiso’s annual
 consolidated financial statements and annual audit fees for a separate
 audit opinion of a subsidiary of Osisko.
 
 (2) 
 
 Audit related fees for 2017 included primarily due
 diligence services pertaining to business combinations. Audit related fees
 for 2016 included accounting consultations fees regarding IFRS.
 
 (3) 
 
 Tax fees are related to tax compliance, tax planning and
 tax advice services for the preparation of corporate tax returns and for
 proposed transactions, mainly the Orion
Transaction.
76

SCHEDULE A AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER

 
 I. 
 
 PURPOSES OF THE AUDIT
 COMMITTEE
The purposes of the Audit Committee are
to assist the Board of Directors: 

 
 
 1. 
 
 in its oversight of the Corporation’s accounting and
 financial reporting principles and policies and internal audit controls
 and procedures;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 in its oversight of the integrity, transparency and
 quality of the Corporation’s financial statements and the independent
 audit thereof;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 in selecting, evaluating and, where deemed appropriate,
 replacing the external auditors;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 in evaluating the qualification, independence and
 performance of the external auditors;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5. 
 
 in its oversight of the Corporation’s risk
 identification, assessment and management program; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6. 
 
 in the Corporation’s compliance with legal and regulatory
 requirements in respect of the above.
The function of the Audit Committee is
to provide independent and objective oversight. The Corporation’s management
team is responsible for the preparation, presentation and integrity of the
Corporation’s financial statements. Management is responsible for maintaining
appropriate accounting and financial reporting principles and policies and
internal controls and procedures that provide for compliance with accounting
standards and applicable laws and regulations. The external auditors are
responsible for planning and carrying out a proper audit of the Corporation’s
annual financial statements and other procedures. In fulfilling their
responsibilities hereunder, it is recognized that members of the Audit Committee
are not full-time employees of the Corporation and are not, and do not represent
themselves to be, accountants or auditors by profession or experts in the fields
of accounting or auditing including in respect of auditor independence. As such,
it is not the duty or responsibility of the Audit Committee or its members to
conduct “field work” or other types of auditing or accounting reviews or
procedures or to set auditor independence standards, and each member of the
Audit Committee shall be entitled to rely on (i) the integrity of those persons
and organizations within and external to the Corporation from which it receives
information, (ii) the accuracy of the financial and other information provided
to the Audit Committee by such persons or organizations absent actual knowledge
to the contrary (which shall be promptly reported to the Board of Directors) and
(iii) representations made by management as to non-audit services provided by
the auditors to the Corporation.
The external auditors are ultimately
accountable to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee as representatives
of shareholders. The Audit Committee is directly responsible (subject to the
Board of Directors’ approval) for the appointment, compensation, retention
(including termination), scope and oversight of the work of the external
auditors engaged by the Corporation (including for the purpose of preparing or
issuing an audit report or performing other audit, review or attestation
services or other work of the Corporation), and is also directly responsible for
the resolution of any disagreements between management and any such firm
regarding financial reporting. 
The external auditors shall submit, at
least annually, to the Corporation and the Audit Committee: 

 
 
 • 
 
 as representatives of the shareholders of the
 Corporation, a formal written statement delineating all relationships
 between the external auditors and the Corporation (“Statement as to
 Independence”); 
 
 
 • 
 
 a formal written statement of the fees billed in
 compliance with the disclosure requirements of Form 52- 110F1 of National
 Instrument 52- 110; and 
77 

 
 
 • 
 
 a report describing: the Corporation’s internal
 quality-control procedures; any material issues raised by the most recent
 internal quality control review, or peer review, of the Corporation, or by
 any inquiry or investigation by governmental or professional authorities,
 within the preceding five years, respecting one or more independent audits
 carried out by the Corporation, and any steps taken to deal with any such
 issues. 

 
 II. 
 
 COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT
 COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee shall be comprised
of three or more independent directors as defined under applicable legislation
and stock exchange rules and guidelines and are appointed (and may be replaced)
by the Board of Directors. Determination as to whether a particular director
satisfies the requirements for membership on the Audit Committee shall be made
by the Board of Directors. 
All members of the Committee shall be financially
literate within the meaning of National Instrument 52-110 – Audit
Committees (“NI 52-110”) and any other securities legislation and stock
exchange rules applicable to the Corporation, and as confirmed by the Board of
Directors using its business judgement (including but not limited to be able to
read and understand a set of financial statements that present a breadth and
level of complexity of accounting issues that are generally comparable to the
breadth and complexity of the issues that can reasonably be expected to be
raised by the Corporation’s financial statements), and at least one member of
the Committee shall have accounting or related financial expertise or
sophistication as such qualifications are interpreted by the Board of Directors
in light of applicable laws and stock exchange rules, including the requirement
to have at least one “audit committee financial expert” as such term is defined
pursuant to Form 40-F under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. The later criteria may be satisfied by past employment experience in
finance or accounting, requisite professional certification in accounting, or
any other comparable experience or background which results in the individual’s
financial sophistication, including being or having been a chief executive
officer, chief financial officer or other senior officer of an entity with
financial oversight responsibilities, as well as other requirements under
applicable laws and stock exchange rules.

 
 III. 
 
 MEMBERSHIP, MEETINGS AND
 QUORUM
The Audit Committee shall meet at least
four times annually or more frequently if circumstances dictate, to discuss with
management the annual audited financial statements and quarterly financial
statements, and all other related matters. The Audit Committee may request any
officer or employee of the Corporation or the Corporation’s external counsel or
external auditors to attend a meeting of the Audit Committee or to meet with any
members of, or consultants to, the Audit Committee.
Proceedings and meetings of the Audit
Committee are governed by the provisions of By-Laws relating to the regulation
of the meetings and proceedings of the Board of Directors as they are applicable
and not inconsistent with this Charter and the other provisions adopted by the
Board of Directors in regards to committee composition and organization. 
The quorum at any meeting of the
Committee is a majority of members in office. All members of the Audit Committee
should strive to be at all meetings. 

 
 IV. 
 
 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE AUDIT
 COMMITTEE
To carry out its purposes, the Audit
Committee shall have unrestricted access to information and shall have the
following duties and powers: 

 
 
 1. 
 
 with respect to the external
auditor,
78 

 
 
 (i) 
 
 to review and assess, at least annually, the performance
 of the external auditors, and recommend to the Board of Directors the
 nomination of the external auditors for appointment by the shareholders,
 or if required, the revocation of appointment of the external
 auditors;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 to review and approve the fees charged by the external
 auditors for audit services;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 to review and pre-approve all services, including
 non-audit services, to be provided by the Corporation’s external auditors
 to the Corporation or to its subsidiaries, and associated fees and to
 ensure that such services will not have an impact on the auditor’s
 independence, in accordance with procedures established by the Audit
 Committee. The Audit Committee may delegate such authority to one or more
 of its members, which member(s) shall report thereon to the
 committee;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 to ensure that the external auditors prepare and deliver
 annually a Statement as to Independence (it being understood that the
 external auditors are responsible for the accuracy and completeness of
 such statement), to discuss with the external auditors any relationships
 or services disclosed in the Statement as to Independence that may impact
 the objectivity and independence of the Corporation’s external auditors
 and to recommend that the Board of Directors take appropriate action in
 response to the Statement as to Independence to satisfy itself of the
 external auditors’ independence; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (v) 
 
 to instruct the external auditors that the external
 auditors are ultimately accountable to the Audit Committee and the Board
 of Directors, as representatives of the
shareholders;

 
 
 2. 
 
 with respect to financial reporting principles and
 policies and internal controls,

 
 
 (i) 
 
 to advise management that they are expected to provide to
 the Audit Committee a timely analysis of significant financial reporting
 issues and practices;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 to ensure that the external auditors prepare and deliver
 as applicable a detailed report covering 1) critical accounting policies
 and practices to be used; 2) material alternative treatments of financial
 information within generally accepted accounting principles that have been
 discussed with management, ramifications of the use of such alternative
 disclosures and treatments, and the treatment preferred by the external
 auditors; 3) other material written communications between the external
 auditors and management such as any management letter or schedule of
 unadjusted differences; and 4) such other aspects as may be required by
 the Audit Committee or legal or regulatory requirements;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 to understand the scope of the annual audit of the design
 and operation of the Corporation’s internal control over financial
 reporting (based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
 Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
 the Treadway Commission (COSO)) and the related auditor’s
report;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 to consider, review and discuss any reports or
 communications (and management’s responses thereto) submitted to the Audit
 Committee by the external auditors, including reports and communications
 related to:

 
 
 • 
 
 significant finding, deficiencies and recommendations
 noted following the annual audit of the design and operation of internal
 controls over financial reporting; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 consideration of fraud in the audit of the financial
 statement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 detection of illegal acts; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the external auditors’ responsibilities under generally
 accepted auditing standards; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 significant accounting policies; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 management judgements and accounting estimates;
 
79 

 
 
 • 
 
 adjustments arising from the audit; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the responsibility of the external auditors for other
 information in documents containing audited financial statements;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 disagreements with management; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 consultation by management with other accountants;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 major issues discussed with management prior to retention
 of the external auditors; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 difficulties encountered with management in performing
 the audit; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the external auditors judgements about the quality of the
 entity’s accounting principles; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 reviews of interim financial information conducted by the
 external auditors. 

 
 
 (v) 
 
 to meet with management and external
 auditors:

 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss the scope, planning and staffing of the annual
 audit and to review and approve the audit plan; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss the audited financial statements, including
 the accompanying management’s discussion and analysis; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss the unaudited interim quarterly financial
 statements, including the accompanying management’s discussion and
 analysis; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss the appropriateness and quality of the
 Corporation’s accounting principles as applied in its financial reporting;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss any significant matters arising from any audit
 or report or communication referred to in item 2 (iii) above, whether
 raised by management or the external auditors, relating to the
 Corporation’s financial statements; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to resolve disagreements between management and the
 external auditors regarding financial reporting; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to review the form of opinion the external auditors
 propose to render to the Board of Directors and shareholders; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to discuss significant changes to the Corporation’s
 auditing and accounting principles, policies, controls, procedures and
 practices proposed or contemplated by the external auditors or management,
 and the financial impact thereof; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to review any non-routine correspondence with regulators
 or governmental agencies and any employee complaints or published reports
 that raise material issues regarding the Corporation’s financial
 statements or accounting policies; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to review, evaluate and monitor the Corporation’s risk
 management program including the revenue protection program. This function
 should include: 

 
 
 ➢ 
 risk assessment; 
 
 
 ➢ 
 quantification of exposure; 
 
 
 ➢ 
 risk mitigation measures; and 
 
 
 ➢ 
 risk reporting; 

 
 
 • 
 
 to review the adequacy of the resources of the finance
 and accounting group, along with its development and succession plans;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to monitor and review communications received in
 accordance with the Corporation’s Internal Whistle Blowing Policy;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 following completion of the annual audit and quarterly
 reviews, review separately with each of management and the independent
 auditor any significant changes to planned procedures, any difficulties
encountered during the course of the audit and reviews, including any
restrictions on the scope of the work or access to required information and the
cooperation that the independent auditor received during the course of the audit
and review; 
80 

 
 
 (vi) 
 
 to discuss with the Chief Financial Officer any matters
 related to the financial affairs of the Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (vii) 
 
 to discuss with the Corporation’s management any
 significant legal matters that may have a material effect on the financial
 statements, the Corporation’s compliance policies, including material
 notices to or inquiries received from governmental agencies;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (viii) 
 
 to periodically review with management the need for an
 internal audit function; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ix) 
 
 to review, and discuss with the Corporation’s Chief
 Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer the procedure with respect
 to the certification of the Corporation’s financial statements pursuant to
 National Instrument 52-109 Certification of Disclosure in Issuer’s
 Annual and Interim Filings and any other applicable law or stock
 exchange rule.

 
 
 3. 
 
 with respect to reporting and
 recommendations,

 
 
 (i) 
 
 to prepare/review any report or other financial
 disclosures to be included in the Corporation’s annual information form
 and management information circular;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 to review and recommend to the Board of Directors for
 approval, the interim and audited annual financial statements of the
 Corporation, management’s discussion and analysis of the financial
 conditions and results of operations (MD&A) and the press releases
 related to those financial statements;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 to review and recommend to the Board of Directors for
 approval, the annual report, management’s assessment on internal controls
 and any other like annual disclosure filings to be made by the Corporation
 under the requirements of securities laws or stock exchange rules
 applicable to the Corporation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 to review and reassess the adequacy of the procedures in
 place for the review of the Corporation’s public disclosure of financial
 information extracted or derived from the Corporation’s financial
 statements, other than the public disclosure referred to in paragraph
 3(ii) above;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (v) 
 
 to prepare Audit Committee report(s) as required by
 applicable regulators;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (vi) 
 
 to review this Charter at least annually and recommend
 any changes to the Board of Directors; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (vii) 
 
 to report its activities to the Board of Directors on a
 regular basis and to make such recommendations with respect to the above
 and other matters as the Audit Committee may deem necessary or
 appropriate.

 
 
 4. 
 
 to review, discuss with management, and approve all
 related party transactions;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5. 
 
 to create an agenda for the ensuing year;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6. 
 
 to review quarterly expenses of the Chief Executive
 Officer;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7. 
 
 to establish and reassess the adequacy of the procedures
 for the receipt, retention and treatment of any complaint received by the
 Corporation regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing
 matters, including procedures for the confidential anonymous submissions
 by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing
 matters in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8. 
 
 to set clear hiring policies regarding partners,
 employees and former partners and employees of the present and, as the
 case may be, former external auditor of the
Corporation.
81 

 
 V. 
 
 RESOURCES AND AUTHORITY OF THE AUDIT
 COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee shall have the
resources and authority appropriate to discharge its responsibilities, as it
shall determine, including the authority to engage external auditors for special
audits, reviews and other procedures and to retain special counsel and other
experts or consultants. The Audit Committee shall have the sole authority
(subject to the Board of Directors’ approval) to determine the terms of
engagement and the extent of funding necessary (and to be provided by the
Corporation) for payment of (a) compensation to the Corporation’s external
auditors engaged for the purpose of preparing or issuing an audit report or
performing other audit, review or attest services for the Corporation, (b) any
compensation to any advisors retained to advise the Audit Committee and (c)
ordinary administrative expenses of the Audit Committee that are necessary or
appropriate in carrying out its duties. 

 
 VI. 
 
 ANNUAL EVALUATION
At least annually, the Audit Committee
shall, in a manner it determines to be appropriate: 

 
 
 • 
 
 perform a review and evaluation of the performance of the
 Audit Committee and its members, including the compliance with this Chart;
 and 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review and assess the adequacy of its Charter and
 recommend to the Board of Directors any improvements to this Charter that
 the Committee determines to be appropriate. 
This Charter was approved and ratified by the Board of
Directors on April 30, 2014. 
This Charter was last reviewed and amended on November 6,
2017. 
82 

SCHEDULE B - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE CANADIAN
MALARTIC PROPERTIES
Most Recent Technical Report 
The most recent technical report filed by Agnico and Yamana in
accordance with NI 43-101 is entitled “Technical Report on the Mineral Resource
and Mineral Reserve Estimates for the Canadian Malartic Property” with an
effective date of June 16, 2014 and a signature date of August 13, 2014 (the
“Canadian Malartic Report&rdquo;). Reference should be made to the
full text of the Canadian Malartic Report. The Canadian Malartic Report is not
and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in this Annual
Information Form.
Information Contained in this Section 
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from (a) the Canadian Malartic Report; (b) Yamana’s and Agnico’s
most recent annual information forms as of the date hereof; and (c) various news
releases publicly filed by Agnico and/or Yamana, and which may all be consulted
under Agnico’s and/or Yamana’s issuer profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.

The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein.
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosure in this section
relating to operations on the Canadian Malartic Property is based on information
publicly disclosed by Agnico and/or Yamana and information/data available in the
public domain as at March 28, 2018 (except where stated otherwise), and none of
this information has been independently verified by Osisko. Osisko considers
that Agnico and Yamana have publicly disclosed all scientific and technical
information that is material to Osisko.
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited access to properties included in its asset portfolio. Additionally,
Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which it is not
permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the operators of the
properties and their qualified persons to provide information to Osisko or on
publicly available information to prepare required disclosure pertaining to
properties and operations on the properties on which Osisko holds interests and
generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such information.
Although Osisko does not have any knowledge that such information may not be
accurate, there can be no assurance that such third party information is
complete or accurate. Some information publicly reported by operators may relate
to a larger property than the area covered by Osisko’s interest. Osisko’s
interests often cover less than 100%, and sometimes only a portion of, the
publicly reported Mineral Reserves, Mineral Resources and production of the
property. Osisko shall not be held liable for any eventual misrepresentations
in any scientific or technical information excerpted from any technical
information publicly filed by Agnico and/or Yamana. 
Project Description, Location and Access 
The Canadian Malartic mine is located approximately 25
kilometres west of the City of Val-d’Or and 80 kilometres east of City of
Rouyn-Noranda. The mine lies within the town of Malartic. It straddles the
townships of Fournière, Malartic and Surimau.
The Canadian Malartic mine operates under mining leases
obtained from the Ministry of Natural Resources (Québec) and under certificates
of approval granted by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment and
the Fight Against Climate Change (Québec). The Canadian Malartic mine is
comprised of the East Amphi property, the CHL Malartic prospect, the Canadian
Malartic property of Canadian Malartic Corporation and the Fournière, Midway and
Piche-Harvey properties. The Canadian Malartic mine consists of a contiguous
block comprising one (1) mining concession, six (6) mining leases and 272 mining
claims. The Canadian Malartic mine is owned by Canadian Malartic GP. The
Canadian Malartic mining claims give Canadian Malartic GP the right to explore for mineral
substances on the subject land; the mining leases give Canadian Malartic GP the
right to mine mineral substances on the subject land; and the mining concession
gives Canadian Malartic GP the right to mine mineral substances and with surface
rights limited to those necessary for mining activities on the subject land.
83 

Expiration dates for the mining leases on the Canadian Malartic
 Property vary between March 23, 2019 and July 27, 2017 and are automatically
renewable for three further ten-year terms upon payment of a small fee. 
The Canadian Malartic mine can be accessed either from Val d’Or
in the east or from Rouyn-Noranda in the west via Québec provincial highway No.
117. A paved road running north-south from the town of Malartic towards Mourier
Lake cuts through the central area of the Canadian Malartic mine. The Canadian
Malartic Property is further accessible by a series of logging roads and trails.
The Canadian Malartic mine is also serviced by a rail-line which cuts through
the middle of the town of Malartic. The nearest large airport is located in
Val-d’Or, about 25 km east of the Canadian Malartic mine. 
A buffer zone 135 metres wide has been developed along the
northern limit of the open pit to mitigate the impacts of mining activities on
the citizens of Malartic. Inside this buffer zone, a landscaped ridge was built
mainly using rock and topsoil produced during pre-stripping work. The height of
this landscaped ridge is 15 metres where the concentration of residents is
higher and five (5) to six (6) metres in less populated areas. 
The electrical power for the Canadian Malartic mine is supplied
from the existing Hydro-Québec 120kV Cadillac main substation. A 120 kV
electrical transmission line, approximately 19 kilometres long was built. The
plant water systems consist of the process water system which is supplied
principally from the plant thickener overflows, the fresh water system which is
supplied from an old underground mine dewatering system, the reagent preparation
water system, the gland water distribution system and the reclaim water from
form the Southeast Pond area. The Canadian Malartic mine is also connected to
the Malartic municipal sewage and potable water systems. Fuel storage facilities
have 250,000 litres of storage capacity. 
Skilled workers are available from the areas within an
approximate 25 km radius of Malartic, specifically Cadillac to the west and
Val-d’Or to the east, where a number of mines are still in operation. 
The Canadian Malartic Property is situated in the Abitibi
lowlands and is relatively flat, consisting of plains with a few small hills.
The topography on the property has altitudes ranging from 310 metres above sea
level (“masl”) to 360 masl. Most of the area is sparsely wooded with
secondary growth black spruce, larch and birch as the dominant species. The
central, east-central and west-central parts of the property are cut by a number
of small streams, generally oriented east-west and connecting bogs or swampy
areas. 
Overburden is characteristically a thin layer of till,
typically only a few metres thick, with local surface development of
organic-rich boggy material. Outcropping exposures of rock are rare to moderate,
generally increasing towards the southern portion of the property and
lithologies become harder and more resistant to erosion. 
The Canadian Malartic mine includes open-pit operations, an
administration/warehouse building, a mine office/truck shop building, a process
plant, a tailings management facility and the crushing plant. 
Following the joint acquisition of Osisko Mining Corporation
(now Canadian Malartic Corporation) by Agnico and Yamana, most of the mining
titles are subject to a 5% NSR royalty payable to Osisko. The mining claims
comprising the CHL Malartic prospect are subject to 3% NSR royalties payable to
each of Osisko and Abitibi Royalties Inc. In addition, of the 208 mining claims
constituting the Canadian Malartic property on June 16, 2014, 101 where also
subject to other net NSR royalties that vary between 1% and 2%, payable under
varying circumstances. Osisko holds a 5% NSR royalty on the Odyssey South zone
and a 3% NSR royalty on the Odyssey North zone, which adjoins the Canadian
Malartic mine. 
84

History
Gold was first discovered in the Malartic area in 1923. Gold
production on the Canadian Malartic property began in 1935 and continued
uninterrupted until 1965. Following various ownership changes over the ensuing
years, Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation) acquired
ownership of the Canadian Malartic property in 2004. Based on a feasibility
study completed in December 2008, Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian
Malartic Corporation) completed construction of a 55,000 tonne per day mill
complex, tailings impoundment area, 5 million cubic metre polishing pond and
road network by February 2011 and the mill was commissioned in March 2011. The
Canadian Malartic mine achieved commercial production on May 19, 2011.
As of December 31, 2010, the Canadian Malartic mine had
received all formal government permits required for its construction and related
activities, with the exception of the authorization for the mill and mine
operations. The official certificate of authorization for the mill and
operations was granted on March 31, 2011, at which point the Canadian Malartic
mine was fully permitted.
Geological Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

Geology
The Canadian Malartic property straddles the southern margin of
the eastern portion of the Abitibi Subprovince, an Archean greenstone belt
situated in the southeastern part of the Superior Province of the Canadian
Shield. The Abitibi Subprovince is limited to the north by gneisses and plutons
of the Opatica Subprovince, and to the south by metasediments and intrusive
rocks of the Pontiac Subprovince. The contact between the Pontiac Subprovince
and the rocks of the Abitibi greenstone belt is characterized by a major fault
corridor, the east-west trending Larder Lake-Cadillac Fault Zone
(“LLCFZ”). This structure runs from Larder Lake, Ontario through
Rouyn-Noranda, Cadillac, Malartic, Val-d’Or and Louvicourt, Québec, at which
point it is truncated by the Grenville Front. 
The regional stratigraphy of the southeastern Abitibi area is
divided into groups of alternating volcanic and sedimentary rocks, generally
oriented at N280° - N330° and separated by fault zones. The main
lithostratigraphic divisions in this region are, from south to north, the
Pontiac Group of the Pontiac Subprovince and the Piché, Cadillac, Blake River,
Kewagama and Malartic groups of the Abitibi Subprovince. The various
lithological groups within the Abitibi Subprovince are metamorphosed to
greenschist facies. Metamorphic grade increases toward the southern limit of the
Abitibi belt, where rocks of the Piché Group and the northern part of the
Pontiac Group have been metamorphosed to upper greenschist facies.
The majority of the Canadian Malartic property is underlain by
metasedimentary units of the Pontiac Group, lying immediately south of the
LLCFZ. The north-central portion of the property covers an approximately 9.5
kilometre section of the LLCFZ corridor and is underlain by mafic-ultramafic
85onalities85io rocks of the Piché Group cut by porphyritic and dioritic
intrusions. The Cadillac Group covers the northern part of the property (north
of the LLCFZ). It consists of greywacke containing lenses of conglomerate. 
Surface drilling by Lac Minerals Ltd. in the 1980s defined
several near-surface mineralized zones now included in the Canadian Malartic
deposit (the F, P, A, Wolfe and Gilbert zones), all expressions of a larger,
continuous mineralized system located at depth around the historical underground
workings of the Canadian Malartic and Sladen mines. In addition to these, the
Western Porphyry Zone occurs 1 km northeast of the main Canadian Malartic
deposit and the Gouldie mineralized zone occurs approximately 1.2 km southeast
of the main Canadian Malartic deposit, although the relationship between these
zones and the main deposit is presently unknown. 
85

Mineralization
Mineralization in the Canadian Malartic deposit occurs as a
continuous shell of 1 to 5% disseminated pyrite associated with fine native gold
and traces of chalcopyrite, sphalerite and tellurides. The gold resource is
mostly hosted by altered clastic sediments of the Pontiac Group (70%) overlying
an epizonal dioritic porphyry intrusion. A portion of the deposit also occurs in
the upper portions of the porphyry body (30%). 
The South Barnat deposit is located to the north and south of
the old South Barnat and East Malartic mine workings, largely along the southern
edge of the LLCFZ. The disseminated/stockwork gold mineralization at South
Barnat is hosted both in potassic-altered, silicified greywackes of the Pontiac
Group (south of the fault contact) and in potassic-altered porphyry dykes and
schistose, carbonatized and biotitic ultramafic rocks (north of the fault
contact). 
Several mineralized zones have been documented within the LLCFZ
(South Barnat, Buckshot, East Malartic, Jeffrey, Odyssey, East Amphi, Fourax),
all of which are generally spatially associated with stockworks and
disseminations within dioritic or felsic porphyritic intrusions. 
Deposit Type
Before the acquisition of the property in 2004 by Osisko Mining
Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation), several models were proposed by
various authors to explain the origin of the gold deposits in the Malartic camp.
Among the proposed models are an epigenetic model with structural and
lithological control, an orthomagmatic-origin porphyry-related model, a porphyry
gold model, and a disseminated-stockwork zone model centered on felsic porphyry
intrusions. 
In 2004, Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic
Corporation)’s personnel adopted the porphyry gold model as a tool to drive
exploration on the property. More recently, a new model was proposed to define
the deposit type explaining the gold mineralization of the Canadian Malartic
mine. It represents a magmatic-hydrothermal model that calls for the exsolution
of an ore fluid from monzodioritic magma at mid-crustal levels. During its
ascent, this fluid potassically altered, carbonated, sulphidized and locally
silicified the host rocks and deposited gold. The porphyritic rocks that host
some of the mineralization were thus not the source of the fluids. Rather, their
contacts with Pontiac greywacke and Piché mafic and ultramafic rocks provided
the competency contrasts that helped focus the mineralizing fluids. 
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification
The available data from the QA/QC programs for the Canadian
Malartic databases show overall acceptable results. 
The statistics of the Certified Reference Materials (standards)
are considered within industry-accepted limits of accuracy. 
The level of contamination appears to be low as the blank
samples do not display evidence of significant contamination. 
The samples sent to an external laboratory do not show any
significant bias as the global average is about the same and the coefficient of
correlation between the two populations is higher than 98%. 
For reference standard samples, the control charts produced by
Osisko Mining Corporation (now Canadian Malartic Corporation) consisted of the
assay results for each standard plotted on the y axis against time on the x
axis. Superimposed on this chart are five horizontal reference lines
representing the accepted value for the standard, the accepted value +2SD and
+3SD (standard deviations), and the accepted value -2SD and -3SD. An analysis of
a standard is considered a QA/QC failure if the result comes back outside of the
±3SD lines. Such charts can also show trends of drift over time indicating
problems with calibration of instruments. 
86

The Canadian Malartic drill hole databases are considered
robust and suitable enough for use in mineral resource estimation studies. 
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
Canadian Malartic ore is composed of four main lithologies
(CPO, SPO, CGR and SGR) spread throughout the deposit in an average ratio of
10%, 20%, 28% and 42%. The deposit was studied (metallurgical testwork) along
three axes: east-west, north-south and depth. The main parameters studied were
hardness and abrasion variability, reagent consumption and gold recovery. 
Gold deportment and diagnostic leach tests demonstrated that
the residual gold, after the leach process, is encapsulated mainly in pyrite.
The significant proportion of the gold remaining in the tailings after the leach
process was characterized as very fine. It was demonstrated that gravimetric
processes are inefficient due to the small grain size. The grind of the leach
feed is the most important parameter observed, especially for the gold
encapsulated in sulphide. The finer the grind, the higher the recovery,
especially for the gold in sulphide. 
Mining Operations
The Canadian Malartic mine is a large open-pit operation
comprising the Canadian Malartic, Barnat and Gouldie pits. Canadian Malartic GP
continues to work with the Québec Ministry of Transport and the town of Malartic
on the deviation of Québec provincial highway No. 117 to gain access to the
higher grade Barnat deposit. The final layout and the environmental impact study
was completed by the end of January 2015. 
Mining at the Canadian Malartic mine is done by open pit method
using excavators and trucks. In order to maximize productivity and limit the
number of units operating in the pit, large scale equipment was selected for the
mine operation. The primary loading tools are hydraulic excavators, with wheel
loaders used as a secondary loading tool. The mine production schedule was
developed to feed the mill at a nominal rate of 55,000 tonnes per day. 
The following table sets forth operation statistics of the
Canadian Malartic mine for the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31,
2016. Figures have been adjusted by Osisko to reflect 100% of the Canadian
Malartic operation. 

 
 
 Twelve Months Ended
 December 31, 2017 
 Twelve Months Ended
 December 31, 2016 
 
 
 Tonnes of ore milled (thousands of tonnes) (100%) 
 20,358 
 19,641 
 
 Tonnes of ore milled per day (100%) 
 55,774 
 53,665 
 
 Gold grade (g/t) 
 1.09 
 1.04 
 
 Gold production (ounces) (100%) 
 633,462 
 585,028 
 
 Production costs per tonne (C$) 
 $24 
 $25 
 
 Minesite costs per tonne (C$) 
 $24 
 $25 
 
 Production costs per ounce of gold produced (US$ per ounce)
 
 $595 
 $628 
 
 Total cash costs per ounce of gold produced (US$ per ounce)
 
 $576 
 $606 
Production costs per ounce for the full year 2017 decreased
when compared to the prior-year period due to higher gold production.
Minesite costs per tonne for the full year 2017 were
essentially the same when compared to the prior-year period. Total cash costs
per ounce for the full year 2017 decreased when compared to the prior-year
period due to higher gold production.
87

Production was higher for the full year of 2017 when compared
to the prior-year period as a result of record annual mill throughput and higher
grades.
Barnat Extension Project
The Barnat extension project continues to progress on schedule
and on budget. Since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2017, the following
activities were completed:

 
 
 • 
 An acoustic screen (noise barrier) for the road
 deviation was put in place 
 
 
 • 
 A temporary bridge was being constructed
 (became operational in January 2018) 
 
 
 • 
 Overload (new road bed foundation) preparation
 
Tree cutting has been completed over the Barnat deposit and
overburden stripping is ongoing. Production activities at Barnat are scheduled
to begin in late 2019.
Infrastructure, Permitting and Compliance Activities

Surface Facilities
Surface facilities at the Canadian Malartic mine include the
administration/warehouse building, the mine office/truck shop building, the
process plant, a tailings management facility and the crushing plant. The
processing plant has a daily capacity of 55,000 tonnes of ore. 
Ore is processed via conventional cyanidation. Ore blasted from
the pit is first crushed by a gyratory crusher followed by secondary crushing
prior to grinding. Ground ore feeds successively into leach and CIP
circuits.
A Zadra elution circuit is used to extract the gold from the
loaded carbon. Pregnant solution is processing via electrowining and the
resulting precipitate is smelted into gold/silver dore bars. 
Mill tails are thickened and detoxified, reducing cyanide
levels below 20 parts per million. A recent study supported the change-over of
the existing Combinox (sulfur dioxide – hydrogen peroxide) cyanide detoxifying
process into a Caro’s (sulfuric acide – hydrogen peroxide) acid process.
Detoxified slurry is subsequently pumped to a conventional tailings facility.

Environmental Matters
In 2015, an action plan was developed and implemented by
Canadian Malartic GP to mitigate noise, vibrations, atmospheric emissions and
ancillary issues. Mitigation measures were put in place to improve the process
and avoid any non-conformance. The mine’s team of on-site environmental experts
continuously monitor regulatory compliance in terms of approvals, permits and
observance of directives and requirements. 
The original design of the waste rock pile was developed to
accommodate approximately 326 millions of tonnes of mechanically placed waste
rock requiring a total storage volume of approximately 161 million cubic metres.
The design of the waste rock pile has been modified to accommodate the Canadian
Malartic pit extension and now includes storage capacity for approximately 740
million tonnes. 
The expansion of the open pit, with the production from the
Canadian Malartic pit extension, will increase the total amount of tailings to
342 million tonnes over the life of mine. The total capacity of the current
tailings management facility is estimated to be 198 million tonnes. An
additional tailings cell was authorized by the Ministry of Sustainable
Development, Environment and the Fight Against Climate Change (Quebec) and
construction began in the third quarter of 2017. This cell will add capacity for
approximately 50 million tonnes of tailings and is expected to be in operation
in 2018. In addition, the Partnership plans to store additional tailings in the
Canadian Malartic pit at the end of its operations. According to the mine plan,
up to 100 million tonnes of tailings will be deposited in the
Canadian Malartic pit once mining in the pit is completed. 
88

Regulatory approval for the proposed tailings deposition in the
 Canadian Malartic pit is part of the approval process for the Canadian Malartic
 pit extension. Golder Associates Ltd. is preparing a hydrogeological study to
 demonstrate that the Canadian Malartic pit would provide a hydraulic trap and
 contain the tailings with minimal environmental risk. Any delays in the expected
 timing of the permits required for the Canadian Malartic pit extension could
have a negative impact on the mining sequence at Canadian Malartic. 
The public hearings as part of the BAPE process took place in
June and July 2016 for the Canadian Malartic pit extension and the BAPE issued
their report in October 2016, with a recommendation to the Minister that the
project be accepted with certain conditions. The Quebec government issued the
decree authorizing both the pit extension and deviation of Quebec provincial
highway No. 117 on April 12, 2017. 
An annual hydrological site balance is maintained to provide a
yearly estimate of water volumes that must be managed in the different
structures of the water management system of the Canadian Malartic mine during
an average climatic year (in terms of precipitation). Results of this
hydrological balance indicate that excess water from the Southeast Pond will
eventually need to be released into the environment. A water treatment plant is
currently under construction to ensure that in the short and medium term the
water to be released to the environment will meet water quality requirements.
Adding a treatment plant is expected to reduce the risks associated with surface
water management and add flexibility to the system. 
Reclamation and closure costs have been estimated for
rehabilitating the tailings facility and waste dump, vegetating the surrounding
area, dismantling the plant and associated infrastructure, and performing
environmental inspection and monitoring for a period of ten years. 
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Estimates - Canadian
Malartic 
In February 2018, Agnico and Yamana disclosed mineral reserve
and mineral resource estimates reported as at December 31, 2017. See also
“Notice to Investors – Technical Information”. All numbers published
by Agnico and Yamana in respect of the Canadian Malartic mine reflect their
respective 50% ownership in the mine. However, unless otherwise noted, the
figures presented in this Annual Information Form have been adjusted, where
applicable, to reflect 100% of the Canadian Malartic mine. 
The following table sets forth the estimated “Mineral Reserves”
(as defined in accordance with the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and
Petroleum (“CIM”) - Definition Standards adopted by CIM Council on May
10, 2014 (the “CIM Definition Standards”) for the Canadian Malartic mine
operated by Canadian Malartic General Partnership, owned by Agnico (50%) and
Yamana (50%), as of December 31, 2017 (figures below have been adjusted by
Osisko to reflect 100% of the Canadian Malartic operation): 

 
 Proven and Probable Mineral
 Reserves(1)(2)(3)(4) 
 
 Category 
 Tonnes (thousands) 
 Grade
 (grams per tonne) 
 Au (thousands of ounces) 
 
 Proven 
 49,980 
 0.95 
 1,520 
 
 Probable 
 131,018 
 1.14 
 4,858 
 
 Proven + Probable 
 180,998 
 1.10 
 6,378 
Notes:

 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Reserves have been calculated in accordance
 with the CIM Definition Standards and NI 43- 101. The “Mineral Reserves”
 are classified as “Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves”, and are based on
 the CIM Definition Standards.
 
 (2) 
 
 The Canadian Malartic General Partnership, owned by
 Agnico (50%) and Yamana (50%), which owns and operates the Canadian
 Malartic mine, has estimated the mine’s December 2017 Mineral Reserves and
 Mineral Resources using the following assumptions: US$1,200 per ounce
 gold, a cut-off grade between 0.35 g/t and 0.37 g/t gold (depending on the
 deposit) and an exchange rate of C$1.25 per
US$1.00.
 
 (3) 
 
 The numbers in the “Tonnes” and “Contained Metal” columns
 are based on Agnico’s disclosure of its 50% interest in the Canadian
 Malartic mine, and have been multiplied by a factor of two to reflect 100%
 of the Canadian Malartic mine.
 
 (4) 
 
 Numbers may not add up due to
rounding.
89

The following table sets forth the estimated “Mineral
Resources” (as defined in accordance with the CIM Definition Standards) for the
Canadian Malartic mine operated by Canadian Malartic General Partnership, owned
by Agnico (50%) and Yamana (50%), as of December 31, 2017 (figures below have
been adjusted by Osisko to reflect 100% of the Canadian Malartic operation):

 
 Measured and Indicated
 Mineral Resources(1)(2)(3)(4)(5) (excluding
 Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves) 
 
 
 Category 
 Mining Method 
 Tonnes
 (thousands) 
 Grade (grams per
 tonne) 
 
 
 Measured 
 Open Pit 
 590 
 0.45 
 
 Underground 
 3,484 
 1.48 
 
 Indicated 
 Open Pit 
 2,016 
 0.46 
 
 Underground 
 19,938 
 1.69 
 
 Inferred 
 Open Pit 
 2,210 
 0.96 
 
 Underground 
 7,426 
 1.67 
Notes:

 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Resources have been calculated in accordance
 with the CIM Definition Standards and NI 43-101. The “Mineral Resources”
 are classified as “Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources”,
 and are based on the CIM Definition Standards.
 
 (2) 
 
 Mineral Resources are exclusive of Mineral Reserves.
 Mineral Resources are not known with the same degree of certainty as
 Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic
viability.
 
 (3) 
 
 The Canadian Malartic General Partnership, owned by
 Agnico (50%) and Yamana (50%), which owns and operates the Canadian
 Malartic mine, has estimated the mine’s December 2017 Mineral Reserves and
 Mineral Resources using the following assumptions: US$1,200 per ounce
 gold, a cut-off grade between 0.33 g/t and 0.37 g/t gold (depending on the
 open pit deposit) and an exchange rate of C$1.25 per US$1.00. The cut-off
 grade for underground resources is not specifically stated.
 
 (4) 
 
 The quantity and grade of reported “Inferred Mineral
 Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and
 great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be
 assumed that all or any part of an “Inferred Mineral Resource” will ever
 be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of
 “Inferred Mineral Resources” may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-
 feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to
 assume that part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists, or is
 economically or legally mineable.
 
 (5) 
 
 The numbers in the “Tonnes” column are based on Agnico’s
 disclosure of its 50% interest in the Canadian Malartic mine, and have
 been multiplied by a factor of two to reflect 100% of the Canadian
 Malartic mine.
Updated Mineral Resource at Odyssey and New Mineral Resource
Reported at East Malartic
The Odyssey property is composed of multiple mineralized bodies
spatially associated with a porphyritic intrusion close to the contact of the
Pontiac Group sediments and the Piché Group of volcanic rocks. They are grouped
into two elongated zones, the Odyssey North and Odyssey South zones, that strike
east-southeast and dip steeply south. Odyssey North has been traced from a depth
of 600 to 1,300 metres below surface along a strike length of approximately 1.5
kilometres. Odyssey South currently has a strike length of 0.5 kilometres and
has been located between approximately 200 and 550 metres below surface.
During 2017, a total of 125 holes (86,051 metres) were
completed at the Odyssey property. The 2017 results have been incorporated with
previous work to update the mineral resource for the Odyssey property (inclusive
of the North and South zones). Inferred mineral resources (on a 50% basis) are
estimated at 838,000 ounces of gold (11.2 million tonnes grading 2.32 g/t
gold).
90

The inferred mineral resource includes a small contribution
from the Jupiter Zone, which is an internal zone that extends from the Odyssey
North Zone. Drilling carried out to date suggests that these internal zones
could increase mineral resources and enhance the economics of the project by
adding higher grade ounces that would require minimal additional infrastructure
to access. Additional drilling is required to fully understand the complex
nature of these zones so that they can be integrated into the mineral resource
model.
In 2017, an initial inferred mineral resource was declared on
the East Malartic property, which was a historical gold producer directly
adjacent to the Canadian Malartic Mine. Inferred mineral resources at East
Malartic (on a 50% basis) are estimated at 1.2 million ounces of gold (19.0
million tonnes grading 2.02 g/t gold) to a depth of 1,000 metres.
The following table sets forth the estimated “Mineral
Resources” (as defined in accordance with the CIM Definition Standards) for the
Odyssey property and the East Malartic property, as of December 31, 2017 (for
Odyssey, figures below have been adjusted by Osisko to reflect 100% of the
operation): 

 
 Measured and Indicated Mineral
 Resources(1)(2)(3)(4)(5) 
 
 Odyssey Property 
 
 
 
 
 Category 
 Mining Method 
 Tonnes (thousands) 
 Grade (grams per tonne)
 
 
 Indicated 
 Underground 
 216 
 2.45 
 
 Inferred 
 Underground 
 22,492 
 2.32 
 
 
 East Malartic Property 
 
 Category 
 Mining Method 
 Tonnes 
 Grade 
 
 
 
 (thousands) 
 (grams per tonne) 
 
 Inferred 
 Underground 
 18,974 
 2.02 
Notes:

 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Resources have been calculated in accordance
 with the CIM Definition Standards and NI 43-101. The “Mineral Resources”
 are classified as “Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources”,
 and are based on the CIM Definition Standards.
 
 (2) 
 
 Mineral Resources are not known with the same degree of
 certainty as Mineral Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic
 viability.
 
 (3) 
 
 Using the following assumptions: US$1,200 per ounce gold
 and an exchange rate of C$1.25 per US$1.00. The cut- off grade is not
 specifically stated.
 
 (4) 
 
 The quantity and grade of reported “Inferred Mineral
 Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and
 great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be
 assumed that all or any part of an “Inferred Mineral Resource” will ever
 be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of
 “Inferred Mineral Resources” may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-
 feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to
 assume that part or all of an inferred mineral resource exists, or is
 economically or legally mineable.
 
 (5) 
 
 The numbers in the “Tonnes” column are based on Agnico’s
 disclosure of its interest (Odissey 50% and East Malartic 100%) and have
 been adjusted to reflect a 100% interest.
Estimated 2018 Capital Expenditures
Budgeted 2018 capital expenditures at the Canadian Malartic
mine are US$135.2 million, excluding capitalized exploration (US$4.6 million).

Update on Canadian Malartic
Since the spring of 2015, Canadian Malartic GP has been working
collaboratively with the community of Malartic and its citizens to develop a
“Good Neighbour Guide” that addresses impacts caused by the activities at the
Canadian Malartic mine. Implementation of the Good Neighbour Guide, which
includes a compensation program and a home acquisition program, began on
September 1, 2016. Under the compensation program, over 90% of the residents of
Malartic have agreed to settle their claims for the compensation offered by the Company. Compensation offered to
eligible individuals in 2017 will be paid in the first quarter of 2018. The
compensation program has been suspended for residents in the southern sector of
Malartic who are also members of the above-noted class action until a final
judgment is rendered with respect to their right to individually settle with the
Partnership. To date, 31 residences have been acquired in the southern sector of
Malartic under the acquisition program of the Good Neighbour Guide. 
91

On August 2, 2016, Agnico and Yamana indicated that Canadian
 Malartic GP was served with a class action lawsuit with respect to allegations
 involving the Canadian Malartic mine. The complaint is in respect of
 ‘‘neighbourhood annoyances’’ arising from dust, noise, vibrations and blasts at
 the mine. The plaintiffs are seeking damages in an unspecified amount as well as
 punitive damages in the amount of $20 million. The class action was certified in
 May 2017. In November 2017, a declaratory judgment was issued allowing the
 Canadian Malartic GP to settle individually with class members for 2017. The
 plaintiffs have since announced that they intend to file an application for
 leave to appeal this declaratory judgment. On December 11, 2017, hearings were
 completed in respect of certain preliminary matters, including the Partnership’s
 application for partial dismissal of the class action. Since the spring of 2015,
 Canadian Malartic General Partnership has been working collaboratively with the
 community of Malartic and its citizens to develop a “Good Neighbour Guide” that
 addresses the allegations contained in the lawsuit. Agnico and Yamana indicated
 that Canadian Malartic GP and Agnico and Yamana will take all reasonable steps
 necessary to defend themselves from this lawsuit. At the current time, Agnico
 and Yamana and Canadian Malartic GP do not believe it is probable that any
 amounts will be paid with respect to these lawsuits and the amount and timing
 cannot be reasonably estimated. In any case, Osisko does not believe that this
 class action would have any impact on the financial results of Osisko as its
royalty is based on production. 
In addition, on August 15, 2016, Agnico and Yamana indicated
that Canadian Malartic GP received notice of an application for injunction
relating to the Canadian Malartic mine, which has been filed under the
Environment Quality Act (Québec). The hearing related to the injunction
took place in March 2017. The request for injunction aimed to restrict the
Canadian Malartic mine’s mining operations to sound levels and mining volumes
below the limits to which it is subject. 
Following the Québec Bureau des Audiences Publiques sur
l’Environnement (“BAPE”) public hearings in June and July 2016,
permitting of the Canadian Malartic extension project and Highway 117 deviation
reached an important milestone with the issue of the BAPE report on October 5,
2016. The report concluded that the project is acceptable and provides several
recommendations intended to enhance social acceptability.
On April 10, 2017, the Quebec Superior Court dismissed the
application for an interlocutory injunction. No dates have been set for the
hearing of the application for a permanent injunction to restrict the Canadian
Malartic mine’s mining operations to sound levels and mining volumes below the
limits to which it is subject.
On April 19, 2017, the Government of Quebec announced the
issuance of two decrees authorizing Canadian Malartic GP to carry out the
proposed expansion of the Canadian Malartic mine and the diversion of Highway
117 in Malartic (the “Project”). 
Diversion plans will include a temporary bridge over Highway
117 to minimize the impact of the construction work on local traffic. During the
third quarter of 2017, construction commenced on the temporary bridge. The road
construction is expected to occur over a two-year period. Agnico’s most recent
production guidance assumes a modest contribution from the Project in late 2019.

The approval of the Project provides greater operating
flexibility and allows for mill throughput of 55,000 tpd. The decree sets the
maximum extraction rate at 241,000 tpd (ore and waste) as long as noise and dust
thresholds are not exceeded.
In December 2017, Agnico announced that it had reached an
agreement to acquire all of Yamana’s indirect 50% interest in the Canadian
exploration assets of Canadian Malartic Corporation. The transaction will
not affect the Canadian Malartic mine and related assets including
Odyssey, East Malartic, Midway and East Amphi, which will continue to be jointly
owned and operated by the Agnico and Yamana through Canadian Malartic
Corporation and Canadian Malartic GP. The transaction is expected to close by
the end of March 2018. 
92

Development activities at the Canadian Malartic mine in 2017
 primarily consisted of minor stripping activities, brush cutting and the
 construction of a bridge that will be used for crossing Quebec provincial
 highway No. 117. Development activities in 2018 are expected to include
 additional stripping activities in the extension area, topographical blasting,
 road deviation preparation, old pit and caved areas filling and other field
works. Permitting activities are ongoing. 
Diamond drilling is used for exploration on the Canadian
Malartic property. In 2017, 60 holes (54,500 metres) were drilled for definition
(conversion) drilling and three holes (4,500 metres) were drilled for
exploration drilling, aimed at targets approximately 800 metres below the pit.
Exploration expenditures at the Canadian Malartic mine during 2017 were
approximately $6.2 million. The main focus of the 2017 exploration program
concentrated on below pit mineralization extensions. 
In 2018, the Partnership expects to spend approximately $5.0
million on exploration drilling at Canadian Malartic in order to identify and
validate below pit mineralization. 
In 2017, regional exploration on the Canadian Malartic
property, other than the pit area, involved the drilling of 116 holes (82,757
metres) for definition (conversion) drilling and 20 holes (9,366 metres) for
exploration drilling. Regional exploration expenditures at the Canadian Malartic
mine during 2017 were approximately $13.98 million. The main focus of the 2017
regional exploration program concentrated on drill definition of the Odyssey
deposit located 1.5 kilometres east of the current limit of the Canadian
Malartic pit. 
In 2018, the Partnership expects to spend approximately $10.5
million on regional exploration drilling at Canadian Malartic. Exploration
programs are planned to identify and extend already known mineralized zones
mainly in the vicinity of the Odyssey Zone. 
2018-2020 Guidance
At Canadian Malartic, guidance for 2018 and 2019 is essentially
unchanged from Previous Guidance. Production in 2020 is expected to increase
primarily due to the mining of higher grades in the Barnat pit (part of the
Barnat expansion project). 
Estimated Payable Gold Production (oz) 

 
 
 2018 Forecast 
 2019 Forecast 
 2020 Forecast 
 
 Canadian Malartic (100%) 
 650,000 
 650,000 
 690,000 
Canadian Malartic Forecast 2018 

 
 Ore Milled (‘000
 tonnes) 
 Gold (g/t)
 
 Gold Mill Recovery
 (%) 
 Minesite Costs per
 Tonne(1) 
 
 
 18,850 
 1.11 
 89.3% 
 C$24 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 Minesite costs per tonne is a non- GAAP
 measure.
Total cash costs per ounce on a by-product basis of gold
produced ($ per ounce) 

 
 
 2017 Actual 
 2018 Forecast 
 
 Canadian Malartic (100%) 
 US$576 
 US$586 
93 

SCHEDULE C - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE ÉLÉONORE
MINE
Most Recent Technical Report
The most recent technical report filed by Goldcorp on the
Éléonore project in accordance with NI 43-101 is entitled entitled “Éléonore
Operations, Québec, Canada, NI 43-101 Technical Report” (the “Éléonore
Report&rdquo;) dated effective December 31, 2015. Reference should be
made to the full text of the &Eacute;l&eacute;onore Report. The
&Eacute;l&eacute;onore Report is not and shall not be deemed to be
incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form.
Information Contained in this Section
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from (a) the Éléonore Report; (b) Goldcorp’s most recent annual
information form as of the date hereof; and (c) various news releases publicly
filed by Goldcorp, and which may all be consulted under Goldcorp’s issuer
profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 
The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein.
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosure in this section
relating to operations on the Éléonore project is based on information publicly
disclosed by Goldcorp and information/data available in the public domain as at
March 28, 2018 (except where stated otherwise), and none of this information has
been independently verified by Osisko. Osisko considers that Goldcorp has
publicly disclosed all scientific and technical information that is material to
Osisko. 
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited, if any, access to properties included in its asset portfolio.
Additionally, Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which
it is not permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the
operators of the properties and their qualified persons to provide information
to Osisko or on publicly available information to prepare required disclosure
pertaining to properties and operations on the properties on which Osisko holds
interests and generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such
information. Although Osisko does not have any knowledge that such information
may not be accurate, there can be no assurance that such third party information
is complete or accurate. Some information publicly reported by operators may
relate to a larger property than the area covered by Osisko’s interest. Osisko’s
interests often cover less than 100%, and sometimes only a portion of, the
publicly reported Mineral Reserves, Mineral Resources and production of the
property. Osisko shall not be held liable for any eventual
misrepresentations in any scientific or technical information excerpted from any
technical information publicly filed by Goldcorp. 
Project Description and Location
The Éléonore Mine is located in the Lake Ell area, in the
north-eastern part of the Opinaca Reservoir of the James Bay region, in the
Province of Québec, Canada. The Éléonore Mine is located approximately 350
kilometres north of the towns of Matagami and Chibougamau, and 825 kilometres
north of Montréal. A permanent road with two permanent bridges has been
completed, extending from the Sarcelle hydroelectric facility to the Éléonore
Mine. The Sarcelle station can be reached via a 40 kilometre gravel road,
starting at the 396 kilometre marker along the James Bay Highway. All of the
material, supplies, and food for the construction and operational phases are
transported along this access route. Workers are brought on site via a permanent
year-round air strip located approximately 1.5 kilometres north of the camp.

The Éléonore Mine comprises 369 contiguous claims totalling
19,274 hectares. The claims are 100% owned by Les Mines Opinaca Ltée
(“Opinaca”). Goldcorp purchased a block of four (4) claims totalling 208
hectares located in the central area of the property in 2011 through an
agreement with Wemindji Exploration. The Éléonore Mine hosts the Roberto gold
deposit, which consists of the Roberto, East Roberto, and Zone du Lac lenses. The Roberto deposit is located
under the Opinaca Reservoir. Claims are map-staked and not surveyed on the
ground and are valid for a two-year period and can be renewed every two years,
subject to payment of renewal fees and minimum exploration work requirements.
The 284-hectare mining lease covering the Roberto deposit was signed by the
Minister of Natural Resources of Québec on February 21, 2014. 
94

The Éléonore Mine is located entirely in Cree territory, or
 Eeyou Istchee, on Category III lands belonging to the Québec government and
 subject to the James Bay and Northern Québec Agreement. Surface leases were
 obtained from the Ministry of Natural Resources for all infrastructures planned
for the Éléonore Mine.
Goldcorp makes an annual payment to the Cree Nation under the
terms of the confidential Opinagow Collaboration Agreement dated February 21,
2011 between Goldcorp, the Cree Nation of Wemindji, the Grand Council of the
Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Nation Government. 
The Éléonore Mine currently holds all required permits to
operate including environmental permits. 
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and
Physiography
Accessibility
The closest towns to the Éléonore project are Matagami and
Chibougamau which are both located approximately 350 kilometres to the south. A
permanent road with two permanent bridges has been completed, extending from the
Sarcelle hydroelectric facility to the Éléonore project. The Sarcelle station
can be reached via a 40-kilometre gravel road, starting at the 396 kilometre
marker along the James Bay Highway. All of the material, supplies, and food for
the construction and operational phases will be transported along this access
route. Workers are brought on site via a permanent year-round air strip located
approximately 1.5 kilometres north of the camp.
Climate
The climate of the Éléonore project area is typical of Northern
Canada and is a temperate to sub-arctic climate. Average summer temperatures
between June and September vary between 10 degrees Celsius and 25 degrees
Celsius during the day, and five degrees Celsius and 15 degrees Celsius at
night. Winters can be cold, with temperatures from -60 degrees Celsius and -10
degrees Celsius. Precipitation varies throughout the year, reaching an average
of two metres annually. Exploration activities are currently conducted
year-round, but can be temporarily halted during spring thaw and fall freeze-up.
Mining activities are expected to be conducted year-round.
Local Resources and Infrastructure
The James Bay region is surrounded by extensive hydroelectric
facilities and associated infrastructure, the closest of which are the Sarcelle
hydroelectric facility located 40 kilometres due west of the Éléonore project on
the Opinaca Reservoir and the Eastmain Dam located 70 kilometres to the south. A
120 kilovolt overhead incoming transmission line with two 120/25 kilovolt
40/53/66.6 MVA oil step-down transformers supports the mining operation. 
Physiography
The physiography of the region is typical of the Canadian
Shield and includes many lakes, swamps and rivers. Outcrop is limited, due to
the presence of swamps and glacial deposits. The area is characterized by a
gently undulating peneplain relief. The elevation of the few hills of this
rolling landscape ranges from 215 metres to 300 metres above sea level. The area
is drained by Lake Ell, which is itself part of the Opinaca Reservoir.
Vegetation is typical of taiga and includes sparse spruce forests separated by
large swampy areas devoid of trees.
95

History
The first recorded exploration in the Éléonore Mine area was by
Noranda, in 1964. Noranda identified a copper showing located within the Ell
Lake diorite intrusion. In 2001, VGM completed regional reconnaissance grab and
channel sampling around Noranda’s Ell Lake copper showing; this work identified
a number of new showings. A series of mineralized corridors consisting of
stockworked gold and chalcopyrite-bearing quartz veinlets were outlined within
dioritic to tonalitic intrusions. In addition, a number of mineralized and
partially-rounded erratic blocks, located about 300 metres from the mineralized
corridors, returned significantly elevated copper, gold, and silver values. 
From June to August 2004, additional trenching was performed on
the Roberto Zone. VGM commenced core drilling in September 2004 and by November
2005 a total of 247 core holes had been drilled. Drilling completed by VGM
successfully extended the mineralization found at surface to a depth of 800
metres below surface. It also extended the mineralization beyond the Roberto
Peninsula into the James Bay area and on the north shore of Ell Lake as well as
to the south. 
Goldcorp reached an agreement to acquire the Éléonore Property
with VGM in November 2005. Goldcorp took control of the Éléonore Property on
March 31, 2006. Since the acquisition, Goldcorp has performed till sampling,
lake-bottom sediment sampling, surface mapping and trenching, additional core
drilling, geological modelling and mineral resource estimation. 
Geological Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

The Roberto deposit is located in Archaean rocks of the
Superior Province of Canada in the transition zone between the Opinaca
Subprovince and the La Grande Subprovince. The contact between the two
subprovinces is not well known and generally corresponds to regional-scale
deformation zones and a sharp change in the metamorphic gradient. In some areas,
the contact is masked by late intrusions of one or the other subprovince. 
The Opinaca Subprovince basin is a sedimentary basin dominated
by migmatized paragneisses and diatexites from the Laguiche Complex and intruded
by syn to post-tectonic tonalite, granodiorite, granite and pegmatite intrusions
from the Janin and Boyd instrusive suites. The metamorphic grade increases from
amphibolites facies near the margins to granulite facies toward the center of
the basin. The paragneisses are strongly metamorphosed and folded rocks that
retained few of their original structures. 
The “S-shaped” La Grande Subprovince surrounds the Opinaca
Subprovince on its west and north sides, spanning a distance of 450 kilometres
in the east-west direction and of 250 kilometres in the north-south direction.
The La Grande Subprovince is an assemblage of volcano-plutonic rocks composed of
85% intrusive rocks and 15% volcano-sedimentary units, the latest forming the
volcano-sedimentary units of the La Grande River and Eastmain River green belts.
These assemblages overlay an older tonalitic basement. Metamorphic grade
increases from the greenschist facies to the amphibolites facies toward the
contact with the Opinaca Subprovince. The Éléonore Mine is overlain by rocks of
the Eastmain Group of the La Grande Subprovince. At its base, the Eastmain Group
consists of the Bernou Formation and the Kasak Formation, which are composed of
basalts and intermediate to felsic tuff. 
Regional faults are mainly present in the La Grande Subprovince
and are oriented north–south, east–west, and northwest–southeast. In outcrop,
the faults can be recognized by either a strong tectonic banding or by the
presence of intense shear zones with mylonitization. In the Opinaca Subprovince,
faults and shear zones are mainly located along fold limbs. 
The Éléonore Mine straddles the contact between the Opinaca and
La Grande Subprovinces. The contact is located in the northeast corner of the
property along a north-westerly trend that is defined by a strong shear zone, a
change in the magnetic grain, and an increase in the metamorphic gradient. The
Éléonore Mine is hosted in Achaean-age rocks of a volcano-sedimentary greenstone
belt developed near the contact between the Opinaca and La Grande Subprovinces
of the Superior Province. Rock units from the Opinaca Subprovince occur in the north-eastern corner of the Éléonore
Mine area. Lithologies are dominated by granite, granodiorites and heterogeneous
assemblages of pegmatites, tonalites and granites from the Janin Intrusive Suite
intermixed with partially migmatized paragneiss from the Laguiche Complex. The
structural grain is oriented in a north-westerly direction evolving to an
east–west grain toward the east part of the Éléonore Mine area. 
96

Rock units belonging to the La Grande Subprovince comprise most
 of the Project area west of the contact and host the Roberto deposit. The
 Roberto deposit is hosted in polydeformed greywacke units in contact with
 aluminosilicate-bearing greywacke and thin conglomerate units. The 1.9
 kilometres long crescent shape of the deposit is the result of F2 folding. To
 date, mineralization has been intersected to a vertical depth of 1,400 metres.
 Gold-bearing zones are generally 5–6 metres in true thicknesses, varying from 2
 metres to more than 20 metres locally. All zones are remaining open at depth.

Information from production drilling and underground mapping
has shown that folding in the southern area edge of the main shoot is tighter
than previously interpreted. 
The numerous subparallel mineralized zones are characterized by
gold-bearing quartz–dravite–arsenopyrite veinlets, contained within
quartz–microcline–biotite–dravite–arsenopyrite–pyrrhotite auriferous replacement
zones. Sulphide concentrations within the auriferous zones vary from 2% to 5%,
with the main sulphides being arsenopyrite, pyrrhotite and pyrite. Relationships
between the nearby diorite and pegmatite intrusions and the gold mineralization
event are still unknown. 
The knowledge of the deposit setting and lithologies, and of
the mineralization style and its structural and alteration controls, is
sufficient to support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation.
Mineralization style and setting of the Project deposit is sufficiently well
understood to support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation. 
Exploration
Exploration in support of mine development has included
prospecting, gridding, mapping, ground induced polarization and magnetic
surveys, a Hummingbird electromagnetic survey, grab and rock chip sampling, soil
sampling, trench and channel sampling, core drilling, metallurgical test work,
mineral resource and mineral eserve estimates, baseline environmental,
geotechnical and hydrological studies, and technical studies. The exploration
programs completed to date are appropriate to the style of the deposits and
prospects within the Éléonore Mine. The exploration and research work supports
the interpretations of genesis and mineralization, and the data obtained to date
with exploration is reliable. There is considerable remaining exploration
potential in the vicinity of the current mining operations and the region. 
The main focus of the exploration activities has been to
advance the Roberto deposit to a development decision, and therefore the greater
Éléonore Mine operations area outside the area now incorporated in the mining
licence has not been subject to significant exploration work in the last seven
years. However, high-quality exploration targets exist, both near the Roberto
deposit and on other parts of the concession, and these warrant further
investigation. 
Drilling
As at June 30, 2017, a total of 1,049,496 metres has been
drilled in 5,577 core holes on the property since 2004. Of these, a total of 351
holes (105,635 metres) were completed by VGM and 5,226 holes (943,861 metres) by
Goldcorp. 
The central portion of the deposit, from surface to a depth of
1,200 metres, is supported by a drilling at 12.5 and 25 metre spacing. In the
fringe of the defined mineralized zones of the deposit from 1,200 to 1,300
metres below surface, the drilling is at 50 and 100 metre spacing. Below a depth
of 1,300 metres, mineralized zones are sparsely drilled at 200 and 500 metre
spacing. Only a few drill holes have been drilled below 1,200 metres. The deeper
boreholes intersected the mineralized horizons at a depth of approximately 1,580 metres below surface. For definition
drilling, drill hole spacing is generally 12.5 metres by 12.5 metres inside the
existing 25 metre drill spacing, as permitted by the mine development schedule.
In 2017, infill drilling at a 25 metre by 25 metre drill spacing was completed
in Horizon 5 and Horizon 6, in the central portion (Main Ore Shoot and South Ore
Shoot). Definition drilling at 12.5 metre by 12.5 metre spacing commenced late
in 2017 in Horizon 5 with the opening of the 950 and 980 haulage drift and is
ongoing. 
97

Standardized logging forms and geological legends were
 developed for the project. Geotechnical logs were completed in sequence prior to
 geological logging. Geological logging used standard procedures and collected
 information on mineralization, lithological breaks, alteration boundaries, and
 major structures. All drill core is photographed. Core recovery is acceptable
for all drill programs. 
Upon completion of a hole, surface drill hole collars were
surveyed using a differential GPS instrument by a registered surveyor.
Underground drill holes are surveyed using a Leica TS15 robotized station. 
Downhole surveys were carried out by the drill contractor for
dip and deviation using a Reflex instrument. 
Drill data are typically verified prior to Mineral Resource and
Mineral Reserve estimation by running a software program check. 
Sample intervals were determined by the geological
relationships observed in the core and vary between 0.3 metres and 1.25 metres.
An attempt was made to terminate sample intervals at lithological and
mineralization boundaries. 
Specific gravity data were collected by Goldcorp’s workforce.
The specific gravity database contains 11,923 specific gravity results that were
determined on core samples. A specific gravity of 2.77 was used for all veins.
The specific gravity database is currently sufficient to provide a reliable
assessment of the variability of the specific gravity across the deposit and
across the various rock types. 
The quantity and quality of the lithological, geotechnical,
collar, and down-hole survey data collected during the exploration and infill
drill programs are sufficient to support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve
estimation. 
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification
Exploration and infill core samples were analyzed by
independent laboratories using industry-standard methods for gold analysis. A
number of different laboratories have been used. Since April 2014, exploration
and infill sample preparation and assay are performed by Accurassay Laboratories
Inc. in Rouyn-Noranda, Québec, which is accredited for ISO 17025 and independent
of Goldcorp. Goldcorp’s in-house laboratory started operation in February 2014
and begin to process muck, chips and definition drilling samples at a rate of
180 samples per day. Overflow and other production samples were sent to ALS
Laboratories (“ALS”). Between January 2007 and April 2014, ALS in
Val-d’Or in Québec was the primary laboratory, and holds ISO 17025 and 9001/2008
certifications and independent of Goldcorp. 
Metallurgical testwork has been done at a number of
laboratories, but was primarily performed by SGS Laboratories. Sample
preparation for samples that support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve
estimation has followed a similar procedure for all VGM and Goldcorp drill
programs. The preparation procedure is in line with industry-standard methods
for a clastic sediment-hosted stockwork-disseminated gold deposit in an orogenic
setting. 
ALS sample preparation comprised drying and crushing to 70 to
90% passing 2 millimetres and pulverizing to 85% passing 75 micrometres. Gold
assays were performed by standard fire assay with an atomic absorption
spectroscopy finish. For assay results equal or above 3.0 g/t gold, samples are
re-assayed with a gravimetric finish. ALS Chemex reports an upper limit of 10
g/t gold and a detection limit of 0.01 g/t gold for atomic absorption
spectroscopy analyses. No other elements were routinely requested for assay.
98

Sample preparation at the internal laboratory consists of
crushing to 75% <10 mesh and pulverising to 85% passing 200 mesh. Gold assays
are performed by using a 30 g fire assay with a microwave plasma–atomic emission
spectrometry finish. For assay results above 34.0 g/t gold, samples are
re-assayed with a gravimetric finish. The internal laboratory reports an upper
limit of 34 g/t gold and a detection limit of 0.001 g/t gold for microwave
plasma–atomic emission spectrometry analyses. 
Accurassay sample preparation procedure consisted of drying and
crushing to 85% <10 mesh, followed by pulverizing to 85% passing <200
mesh. Gold assays are performed by standard fire assay with an atomic absorption
spectroscopy finish. Accurassay reports an upper limit of 10 g/t gold and a
detection limit of 0.01 g/t for atomic absorption spectroscopy analyses. No
other elements are routinely assayed. 
The collected sample data adequately reflect deposit
dimensions, true widths of mineralization, and the style of the deposits. 
VGM and Goldcorp maintained a QA/QC program for the project.
This comprised the submission of analytical SRMs, duplicates and blanks. QA/QC
submission rates meet industry-accepted standards of insertion rates. No
material sample biases were identified by the QA/QC programs. 
The results of the QA/QC programs did not indicate any problems
with the analytical programs. Accordingly, we have concluded that the drill core
gold analyses are acceptably accurate and precise to support Mineral Resource
and Mineral Reserve estimation. 
Sample security has relied upon the fact that the samples were
always attended or locked in the logging facility. Chain-of-custody procedures
consisted of filling out sample submittal forms that were sent to the laboratory
with sample shipments to make certain that all samples were received by the
laboratory. Current sample storage procedures and storage areas are consistent
with industry standards. 
The quality of the gold analytical data is sufficiently
reliable to support Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation and that
sample preparation, analysis, and security are generally performed in accordance
with exploration best practices and industry standards. 
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
Extensive metallurgical studies were carried out on samples
taken from the various Éléonore Mine ore zones. Most of the metallurgical
testwork was completed during 2006–2010 as part of engineering studies.
Additional paste backfill testing was performed in 2013. 
Assumed life-of-mine gold recovery assumptions are based on
appropriate testwork, and should average approximately 93% over the
life-of-mine. 
Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource Estimates 
Proven and probable gold mineral reserves as of June 30, 2017
totaled 3.8 million ounces, compared to 4.6 million ounces as of June 30, 2016.
Mine depletion and resource model variance accounted for a decrease of 0.3
million ounces and 0.2 million ounces respectively, while engineering changes
resulted in the reclassification of 0.3 million ounces into the measured and
indicated mineral resource category. 
99

The following table sets forth the gold Mineral Reserve
estimations for the Éléonore Mine effective June 30, 2017: 

 
 Proven and Probable Mineral
 Reserves (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6) 
 
 
 Category 
 Tonnes (millions)
 
 Grade (g/t) 
 Au (millions of
 ounces) 
 
 Proven 
 2.73 
 6.94 
 0.61 
 
 Probable 
 16.88 
 5.87 
 3.19 
 
 Proven + Probable 
 19.61 
 6.02 
 3.80 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Reserves are classified as Proven and
 Probable and are based on the CIM Definition Standards. Proven Mineral
 Reserves include stockpile material.
 
 
 (2) 
 
 Based on a gold price of US$1,200 per ounce, an economic
 function that includes variable operating costs and metallurgical recovery
 of 93%, and a US$ exchange rate of C$1.30.
 
 
 (3) 
 
 Global cut-off grade of 3.86 g/t. Total average US$
 operating costs are $110.72 per tonne (mining: $55.72 per tonne;
 processing: $30.11 per tonne; G&A: $24.89 per tonne).
 
 
 (4) 
 
 An overall dilution of 15% is applied to the stopes using
 zero grade outside stope shapes.
 
 
 (5) 
 
 Mineral Reserves take into account a 95% mining
 recovery.
 
 
 (6) 
 
 Numbers may not add up due to
rounding.
Factors that can affect the Mineral Reserve estimates are:
geological complexity causing under estimation of dilution; low recovery at the
mill because of a possible change in the hardness of the rock or mineralogical
characteristics; more water infiltration from the surface or underground than
expected; in situ stress in the rock; rock burst; deviations in drill holes
necessary to support production may cause more dilution; paste backfill
strength; stope dilution and recovery factors, which are adjusted annually based
on accumulated mining experience; stope stability is also an important factor
with some stopes that have a range of span and thickness; and changes in
commodity price and exchange rate assumptions. 
The following table sets forth the gold Mineral Resource
estimations for the Éléonore Mine effective June 30, 2017: 

 
 Measured and Indicated
 Mineral Resources (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)
 (excluding Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves) 
 
 
 Category 
 Tonnes (millions)
 
 Grade (g/t) 
 Au (millions of
 ounces) 
 
 Measured 
 3.67 
 7.65 
 0.90 
 
 Indicated 
 3.48 
 3.87 
 0.43 
 
 Measured + Indicated 
 7.16 
 5.81 
 1.34 
 
 Inferred 
 8.45 
 7.31 
1.99 

 
 
 (1) 
 
 The Mineral Resources are classified as Measured,
 Indicated and Inferred, and are based on the CIM Definition
 Standards.
 
 
 (2) 
 
 All Mineral Resources are reported exclusive of those
 Mineral Resources that were converted to Mineral Reserves. Mineral
 Resources are not known with the same degree of certainty as Mineral
 Reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability.
 
 
 (3) 
 
 A minimum true thickness of 2.5 metres was applied for
 all Mineral Resource estimates, using the grade of the adjacent material
 when assayed or a value of zero when not assayed.
 
 
 (4) 
 
 A top cut varying from 20 g/t and 100 g/t (6.5 g/t for
 the dilution envelope) was applied to assay grades prior to compositing
 grades for interpolation into model blocks using Ordinary Kriging, and was
 based on 2 metre composites within a block model made of 5 metre long x 5
 metre wide x 5 metre high blocks. Average specific gravity is 2.77 grams
 per cubic metre.
 
 
 (5) 
 
 Mineral Resources are reported using a 2.88 g/t gold
 cut-off grade, which is based on assumptions of a US$1,400 per ounce gold
 price, long-hole stoping underground mining methods, an exchange rate of
 C$/US$1.30, a life- of- mine metallurgical recovery of 93%, and a total
 mining cost of $110.72 per tonne (comprising the following cost: mining:
 $55.72 per tonne; processing: $30.11 per tonne; G&A: $24.89 per
 tonne).
 
 
 (6) 
 
 Numbers may not add up due to
rounding.
Diamond drilling is underway on the Éléonore Mine to convert
the actual and growing Inferred Mineral Resources to Indicated Mineral Resources
and if the program is proved successful and grade consistent with actual
resource, it is possible that this work could increase the Mineral Reserves.

100

Key areas of uncertainty that may materially impact the Mineral
Resource estimate include: geological complexity including folding and faulting
of vein material between drill hole intercepts; commodity price assumptions;
metal recovery assumptions; hydrological constraints; and rock mechanics
(geotechnical) constraints. 
Mining Operations
Open stope mining (down-hole drilling) and longitudinal retreat
with consolidated backfill (paste backfill mixed with crushed waste rock) is
utilized. A transverse open stope approach is used where the mineralized lenses
are wider than 7 metres. 
For mine scheduling purposes, the vertical extent of the
orebody is subdivided into two parts: the upper part of the orebody located
between 65 metres and 650 metres below surface (Upper Mine), and the lower part
of the orebody located between 650 metres and 1,190 metres below surface (Lower
Mine). Dividing the orebody into two parts has accelerated the production
start-up. 
Mining started from the 440 metre level and the 650 metre
level. Production will be at the nominal rate of 5,000 tonnes per day with four
mining horizons starting on the 230 metre level, 440 metre level, 650 metre
level and 800 metre level. At this stage, it is expected that all the ore and
waste of horizon 1 (65 metre level to 230 metre level) will be trucked to the
surface; the ore and waste of horizons 2, 3 and 4 (230 metre level to 800 metre
level) is hoisted up the production shaft. 
Studies to increase and sustain the production rate will be
conducted as more drilling information becomes available. Based on the current
Mineral Reserves, the planned operation has a 10-year mine life. The mine plan
is under evaluation for including the mining of the zone above 55 metres below
surface (crown pillar recovery project), however economics do not currently
support including this into mineral reserves. 
The ramp is currently used as the air exhaust and will continue
to do so when completed. The main ventilation raise is the Gaumond shaft. From
the shaft, the air is distributed into two internal ventilation raises, one
located in the North Zone and one in the South Zone, each of which will bring
fresh air to work places. A ventilation on demand system is operational to
direct ventilation to areas with human and vehicular activities, and once
completed it will help to reduce this preliminary estimation. 
The permanent pumping system is designed to be upgradable
depending of the total water infiltration in the mine and also the mine plan.
The system is designed to pump dirty water to the stations above and finally
reach the surface. It consists of two main pumping stations (on the 400 metre
level and 650 metre level). 
Stope widths vary between 2.5 metres and 20 metres. Stopes have
a maximum length of 25 metres, with a typical height of 30 metres between
levels. Ground support consists of various combinations of rebar bolts, friction
bolts, cables, screen and shotcrete depending on the rock quality and particular
requirements of each heading. 
Stopes are backfilled with paste fill. Unconsolidated backfill
is used wherever is possible in order to avoid hoisting waste rock to the
surface. The current paste backfill mixture consists of 70% mill tailings, 25%
fine sulphide concentrate, and between 4% to 7% binder. The sulphide tailing
concentration can be up to 25% without having effect on the paste strength.
Crushed waste is typically added to the fill, so the percentage of the mill
tailings decreases. 
A fully-mechanized mining equipment fleet is used. Equipment
includes scoop trams, dump trucks, mine service and personnel vehicles, jumbo
drills, bolting platforms, scissor lifts, land cruiser and forklifts. 
There is potential to extend the mine life and potentially
sustain the 7,000 tonnes per day throughput rate if some or all of the Inferred
Mineral Resources identified within the life-of-mine production plan can be
upgraded to higher confidence Mineral Resource categories, and eventually
converted to Mineral Reserves. Mineralization remains open at depth, with the
deepest drill hole encountering mineralization at 1,400 metre depth; the current
mine plan extends to 1,190 metre depth. 
101

As part of day-to-day operations, Goldcorp continues to
 undertake reviews of the mine plan and consideration of alternatives to and
 variations within the plan. Alternative scenarios and reviews may be based on
 ongoing or future mining considerations, evaluation of different potential input
factors and assumptions, and corporate directives. 
Processing and Recovery Operations
The mill is designed to operate at 7,000 tonnes per day (2.55
Mt per year) for 365 days per year. The comminution circuit consists of three
stages of crushing followed by a single stage of ball mill grinding. The primary
crusher (jaw crusher), the secondary crusher (standard cone crusher) and the
tertiary crushers are located at surface. Two short head cone crushers are
needed to handle a 7,000 tonnes per day throughput. The fine-crushed ore is
ground using a single-stage ball mill connected in a closed circuit with
cyclones. 
A portion of the cyclones underflow is being directed to a
gravity concentration circuit consisting of a Knelson concentrator and an Acacia
Reactor to recover liberated native gold. 
Cyclone overflow (grinding circuit product) is directed to the
flotation cells to separate the sulphides into a low-mass sulphur concentrate. A
thickener controls the density of the flotation tail slurry. Flotation tails are
leached with cyanide for 36 hours while going through five leach tanks.
Flotation concentrate is thickened and reground so that 80% (P80) is smaller
than 20 micrometres using a fine grinding mill; then it is pre- aerated with
oxygen for 20 hours prior to being leached with cyanide for 30 hours in five
additional leach tanks. The gold in solution is recovered in carousel CIP
circuits (one for each leach circuit). 
The carbon from each CIP circuit is stripped as required in a
Zadra process, and the gold recovered from that final stage of the mineral
processing circuit is poured into gold bars at regular intervals. The carbon is
regenerated and returned to the CIP circuits for reuse. 
The tails from each leaching circuit are detoxified in a
conventional cyanide destruction circuit (SO2/Air), and then filtered. Finally,
tailings can be added to the paste backfill. Non-sulphides tailings are stored
in a covered shed before being transported by hauling truck to the tailings
management facility. 
The tailings facilities are completely lined, and are designed
so that all water touching the tailings is collected and treated. The exposed
surface of the tailings is kept to a minimum, made possible by the choice of
filtered tailings that allows for progressive reclamation. The tailings design
envisages a storage capacity of 26 Mt. 
Infrastructure, Permitting and Compliance Activities

The James Bay region is surrounded by extensive hydroelectric
facilities and associated infrastructure, the closest of which are the Sarcelle
hydroelectric facility located 40 kilometres due west of the Éléonore Mine on
the Opinaca Reservoir and the Eastmain Dam located 70 kilometres to the south. A
120 kilovolt overhead incoming transmission line with two 120/25 kilovolt
40/53/66.6 MVA oil step-down transformers supports the mining operation. 
For the Éléonore Mine operations, the major issues identified
include the potential impacts on the environment, the proper management of
tailings and waste water, access (roads, airports), social acceptability and
management of the post-reclamation site. Goldcorp is of the opinion that these
issues have been addressed and mitigated through a combination of baseline data
collection, appropriate engineering and project design studies, and public
consultation. The Éléonore Mine operations currently hold all required permits
to operate, including environmental permits. 
102

The Éléonore Mine operations are located on traditional family
territories of the Cree Nation of Wemindji, and within the Municipality of
Eeyou–Isthee–James Bay. The Opinagow Collaboration Agreement was signed in
February 2011. 
Capital and Operating Costs
Capital and operating cost estimates were prepared by
Goldcorp’s workforce. Capital cost estimates are based on a combination of the
latest mine construction data and budgetary numbers/quotes provided by
suppliers, and experience with similar-sized operations. The total life-of-mine
capital estimate is US$462 million, comprising US$411 million of sustaining
capital and US$51 million of expansionary capital. 

 
 Area 
 Life-of-Mine
 (US$ million) 
 
 Sustaining 
 411 
 
 Expansionary 
 51 
 
 Total 
 462 
Operating cost estimates are based on the 2017 LOM budget,
which includes estimates from first principles for major items and allowances or
estimates for minor costs. An average overall unit cost of US$110.72 per tonne
was estimated, comprising US$30.11 per tonne for processing, including backfill
and tailings treatment and transportation, US$55.72 per tonne for mining, and
US$24.89 per tonne for G&A. Exploration expenditures are not included in the
operating costs. 

 
 Area 
 Life-of-Mine
 (US$ per tonne) 
 
 Process Plant 
 30.11 
 
 Mining Operations 
 55.72 
 
 G&A 
 24.89 
 
 Total 
 110.72 
Exploration, Development and Production 
The Éléonore mine has two shafts. The production shaft is the
primary ore and waste handling system, with a nominal 8,500 tonnes per day
hoisting capacity (17 hours per day). The production shaft has been in operation
since 2016. The original hoisting installations in the Gaumond exploration shaft
were decommissioned in 2017. 
The processing plant had an average throughput of 5,278 tonnes
per day in 2017 with a ramp-up period continuing to reach full production
capacity, which is commensurate with the current Mineral Reserves. 
2018 Outlook
Exploration drilling in 2018 will primarily target structures
in the lower extensions of the ore body to convert Mineral Resources to Mineral
Reserves. 
At the Éléonore Mine, Goldcorp’s gold production guidance for
2018 is 360,000 ounces (+/- 5%). 
The increase compared to 2017 is due to the continued ramp up
of the mine. The production ramp-up to full capacity is expected to continue
into 2018 with the anticipated addition of a fifth production horizon. A life of
mine study is underway to determine the sustainable mining rate from the Roberto
deposit. 
103

SCHEDULE D - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE RENARD
DIAMOND MINE
Most Recent Technical Report
The most recent technical report filed by Stonoway in
accordance with NI 43-101 is entitled “Updated Renard Diamond Project Mine Plan
and Mineral Reserve Estimate, Québec, Canada, NI 43-101 Technical Report” (the
“Renard Technical Report”) dated effective December 31, 2015.
Reference should be made to the full text of the Renard Technical Report. The
Renard Technical Report is not and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by
reference in this Annual Information Form. References to the “project” or
“property”; refer to the
Renard Diamond Mine as defined in the Renard Technical Report. 
Information Contained in this Section
The Renard Diamond Mine, part of the Foxtrot Property, is 100%
owned and operated by SDCI, a wholly owned subsidiary of Stornoway. 
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from (a) the Renard Technical Report; (b) Stornoway’s most recent
annual information forms as of the date hereof; and (c) various news releases
publicly filed by Stonoway, and which may all be consulted under Stornoway’s
issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 
The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein. 
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosure in this section
relating to operations on the Renard Diamond Mine is based on information
publicly disclosed by Stornoway and information/data available in the public
domain as at March 28, 2018 (except where stated otherwise), and none of this
information has been independently verified by Osisko. Osisko considers that
Stornoway has publicly disclosed all scientific and technical information that
is material to Osisko.
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited access to properties included in its asset portfolio. Additionally,
Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which it is not
permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the operators of the
properties and their qualified persons to provide information to Osisko or on
publicly available information to prepare required disclosure pertaining to
properties and operations on the properties on which Osisko holds interests and
generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such information.
Although Osisko does not have any knowledge that such information may not be
accurate, there can be no assurance that such third party information is
complete or accurate. Some information publicly reported by operators may relate
to a larger property than the area covered by Osisko’s interest. Osisko’s
interests often cover less than 100%, and sometimes only a portion of, the
publicly reported Mineral Reserves, Mineral Resources and production of the
property. Osisko shall not be held liable for any eventual
misrepresentations in any scientific or technical information excerpted from any
technical information publicly filed by Stornoway. 
Summary and Project Status
The Renard Diamond Mine is 100% owned and operated by SDCI. The
project is subject to a 2% direct royalty interest on diamonds, held by Diaquem.
In addition, on July 8, 2014, the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward
Sale of Diamonds was entered into by FCDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of SDCI,
with Orion Stream I and/or the Renard Buyers. The Renard Streaming Agreement for
the Forward Sale of Diamonds was amended on March 31, 2015. Copies of the Renard
Stream Agreement and the amendment are available on SEDAR under Stornoway’s
issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. A summary of the Renard
Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds is disclosed in the annual
information form of Stornoway dated February 23, 2017. 
104

The project site is located in the James Bay region, central
Québec, Canada, approximately 70 km north of the Otish Mountains and some 360 km
north-northeast from the mining town of Chibougamau. The site is located at
longitude 72°11' West and latitude 52°49' North; and benefits from an all
year-round land and air access. Operations can be conducted year-round. 
The execution plan proposes concepts and practices that are
consistent with those in the Canadian diamond mining industry. The project
design contemplates open pit mining of the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 65
kimberlite pipes, followed by underground mining of the Renard 2, Renard 3 and
Renard 4 kimberlite pipes by BHS. Ore will be processed initially at the process
plant nameplate capacity of 2.16 Million tonnes per annum, and subsequently
expanded to 2.5 Million tonnes per annum, with three stages of crushing and a
concentration process in two different stages, namely an LDR process and a DMS.
Each of the LDR and DMS will produce a concentrate that will be treated in a
secure diamond recovery facility using diamond differentiation techniques based
on magnetic, X-ray, laser Raman and ultra-violet technologies, with hand-
sorting as the final de-falsing step to produce a nominally 98% diamond by
weight product at final sorting. The non-diamond product generated by each of
the LDR and DMS will be further sized, and the coarser size fraction (+6mm) will
be recirculated through the HPGR (as defined herein) to release locked diamonds.
Process plant design and equipment selections were based on bulk sample plant
operational data, test work, experience from other operations and proven
technology to minimize diamond breakage. 
Supporting infrastructure includes an effluent treatment plant,
potable water treatment plant, a power plant (comprised of seven natural gas
generators of 2,050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of 1,800 KW
each), LNG and diesel tank farms, LNG regasification plant, 370 bed
accommodation complex, a six-bay maintenance facility, mine offices, an
explosive storage and handling area, a 1,494 metre gravel airstrip and
telecommunication systems. 
Processed kimberlite will be disposed of through a dry stack
facility currently under construction and the management of surface runoff water
is facilitated through a system of peripheral drainage ditches designed to
direct runoff water to an excavated catch basin for treatment, if required,
before release to the environment. Suspended solids are determined to be the
main concern for water treatment. Storage capacity of the catch basin
accommodates spring runoff and a 100 year return storm event. Mine operations
incorporate a program of progressive reclamation that minimizes costs and allows
timely monitoring of performance. Waste rock generated by mining will be
re-introduced to the underground as backfill. 
Cost estimates were established from first principles where
appropriate, or from benchmarking against comparable projects, or derived from
actual costs incurred during the first year of the project’s mining operations.
Appropriate contingencies and mitigation allowances have been applied, and risk
management and peer reviews were held during the construction and development
process. 
The Renard Technical Report describes a Mineral Reserve (as
such term is defined in NI 43-101) estimate of 22.3 million carats (33.4 million
tonnes at an average grade of 67 cpht), based on mining, processing and
infrastructure already in place or on designs as detailed, and incorporating
current geological and diamond revenue data. Inferred Resources are considered
too geologically speculative to have mining and economic considerations applied
to them and to be categorized as Mineral Reserves and are not included in the
Renard Technical Report. 
Stornoway completed a financial analysis for the Renard Diamond
Mine, reflected in the Renard Technical Report. For the purposes of the Renard
Technical Report financial model, net-present valuations are presented on net
cash flow after operating costs, marketing costs, net of all royalties, costs
incurred under the Mecheshoo Agreement, with the effective revenue impairment
associated with the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds,
and on an unlevered basis. After-Tax NPV (7%) is estimated at $974 million, and
$1,349 million on a pre-tax basis, in real dollar terms. Given the advanced
nature of project construction, estimates of internal rate of return and payback
period are not considered meaningful. After-tax NPV reflect the deduction of
federal and Québec income taxes and applicable mining duties. 
105

All elements of the project development plan, including the
remaining required infrastructure, mine design, process plant design, waste
disposal infrastructure and cost estimation, represent the current estimate for
life of mine operations. The resulting information therefore met all of the
applicable requirements for conversion of Indicated Mineral Resources to a
Probable Mineral Reserve estimate (as such terms are defined in NI 43-101). The
Probable Mineral Reserve estimate was determined in accordance with CIM
Definition Standards classification. Considering the risks inherent in all
kimberlite deposits, such as sampling for geological continuity, diamond grade
and diamond revenue determination, the Indicated portion of the Mineral
Resources is considered suitable for the estimate of Probable Reserve. The
authors of the Renard Technical Report recommend to perform additional work in
order to reduce the uncertainties in the geomechanical and design analysis and
to continually review these analysis to ensure they remain valid over time. They
also recommend to test processed kimberlite material post production to confirm
geochemical classification. There is no certainty that the Renard Technical
Report will be realized. 
Property Description and Location
The Renard Diamond Mine is part of the Foxtrot Property
situated in the Monts Otish (Otish Mountains) region of the province of Québec,
Canada, 820 km north of the city of Montreal and 360 km north-northeast of the
mining town of Chibougamau. The principal access point for employees,
contractors and visitors to the project is via the Renard airport, specifically
built for the use of the Renard Diamond Mine and located along the Renard
Diamond Mine access road 10 km away from the Renard Diamond Mine gate, with
goods and services delivered to site by road on the all-weather Renard Mine
Road/Route 167 Extension, the construction of which was completed by Stornoway
in 2014. The closest settlement is Témiscamie, on the shore of Lac Albanel. The
regional centre of Chibougamau acts as staging posts for the trans-shipment of
materials and personnel. Power is currently provided to the construction site
via diesel generators, however a power plant (comprised of seven natural gas
generators of 2050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of 1800 KW each)
was constructed on the Renard Diamond Mine site to provide for future power
requirements of the mine. Daily deliveries of LNG by tanker truck from Montreal
are made possible by the all-season Renard Mine Road/Route 167 Extension to the
Project. On site LNG storage capacity is rated at 10 days of supply at full
project production. 
The claims comprising the Foxtrot Property are registered in
the name of SDCI as a 100% interest and at the effective date of the Renard
Technical Report, all claims were reported to be in good standing. 
The claim holder has the exclusive right to search for all
mineral substances in the public domain, with the exception of petroleum,
natural gas, brine and loose surface materials. Claims are valid for a two-year
period and can be renewed every two (2) years. Renewal fees are fixed by
regulation. In order to maintain tenure, exploration work equivalent in amounts
also determined by regulation are required depending on the number of terms of
renewal a claim has undergone. Table 1.1 details the work requirements per
renewal period north of the 52 parallel as set by regulation at the time of the
Renard Technical Report. When the work carried out is insufficient, or if work
was not carried out, the titleholder may pay an amount equivalent to the
required amount in lieu of work. Alternatively, work expenditures that are in
excess of the amount required for the term on a claim can be transferred to
other contiguous claims that are within 4.5 km of its radius or can be credited
towards future renewals. 
106

Table 1.1: Work Requirement per Renewal Period 

 
 Term 
 Surface area of claim 
 
 Less than 25 ha 
 25 to 45 ha 
 More than 45 ha 
 
 1 
 $48 
 $120 
 $135 
 
 2 
 $160 
 $400 
 $450 
 
 3 
 $320 
 $800 
 $900 
 
 4 
 $480 
 $1,200 
 $1,350 
 
 5 
 $640 
 $1,600 
 $1,800 
 
 6 
 $750 
 $1,800 
 $1,800 
 
 7 or more 
 $1,000 
 $2,500 
 $2,500 
Mining Lease BM 1021 was granted to SDCI on October 16, 2012,
is valid for a period of 20 years (with three 10-year renewal periods and for
5-year renewal periods thereafter), and, at the time of the Renard Technical
Report, was subject to annual payments set at $46.50/ha. This mining lease
encompasses the mine site and surface operations (excluding the processed
kimberlite containment area). 
The surface lease number 1303 10 000 encompassing the processed
kimberlite containment area was also granted on October 16, 2012, and at the
time of the Renard Technical Report had yearly renewal fees at $94/ha. A number
of additional surface leases were granted to SDCI to cover various requirements
of the Renard Diamond Mine. 
SDCI holds a 100% interest in the poperty, subject to a 2%
direct gross revenue royalty on future life of mine diamond production in favour
of DIAQUEM Inc. 
Environment
The Renard Diamond Mine is located in a region with a subarctic
climate. Temperatures range from summer maximums of +35°C to winter minimums of
-45°C. Abundant precipitation falls in the form of rain and snow. Total annual
precipitation averages around 80-100 cm. Operations can be conducted year-round.

The James Bay region is divided into four distinct bioclimatic
domains, in the following succession from south to north: the balsam fir-white
birch domain; the spruce-moss domain; the spruce-lichen domain; and the forest
tundra domain. The Renard Diamond Mine study area is located in the
spruce-lichen domain. In this domain, black spruce punctuates the carpet of
lichen, while jack pine and balsam fir reach the northern limit of their
distribution range. 
Within the Renard Diamond Mine study area, wetlands represent
only 3% of the plant communities. They consist of small ombrotrophic bogs,
swamps and patterned fens that cover at the most a few hectares each. The
presence of 14 fish species has been confirmed within the project study area.
Among these, five species are of interest for sport fishing: northern pike, lake
white fish, brook trout, lake trout and burbot. White sucker, pearl dace and
brook trout are the most abundant species in the area. 
Topographic relief within the Foxtrot Property consists of
steep-sided hills with rounded tops separated by muskeg-covered valleys.
Elevations range between 450 masl and 550 masl. Lakes, ponds and small rivers
are common. 
The Renard Diamond Mine study area is located on Trapline M-11,
which covers the entire Foxtrot Property. Subsistence hunting is practiced by
Crees in this area and targets mainly moose and waterfowl. 
107

Government and Social License
The Foxtrot Property is located within the region of Northern
Québec governed by the JBNQA, a land claims agreement executed by the government
of Québec, the government of Canada, the Grand Council of the Cree of Québec
(Eeyou Istchee) and the Northern Québec Inuit Association, among others. This
agreement defines the social and environmental protection regimes for the
regions of James Bay and Nunavik. The JBNQA provides for three categories of
land, Categories I to III, each with specifically defined rights. Category III
lands are public lands where Cree communities have certain rights, particularly
in regard to trapping, hunting, fishing and the development of outfitter
operations. Members of the Cree Nation of Mistissini undertake hunting, fishing
and trapping activities within the Foxtrot Property, with the Renard Kimberlite
Pipes occurring in an area known to them as “yuus-kanchiisu-saakahiikan” (mild
rock Ptarmigan Lake). More specifically, the Renard Kimberlite Pipes lie within
the Cree Nation of Mistissini trapline area designated as M-11. 
In February 2002, Québec and the Cree Nation signed a fifty
year political and economic agreement known as La Paix des Braves. The
Grand Council of the Cree of Québec (Eeyou Istchee) is the political body that
represents approximately 14,500 Crees of Eastern James Bay and Southern Hudson
Bay in Northern Québec. The Grand Council of the Cree of Québec (Eeyou Istchee)
has twenty members: a Grand Chief and Deputy-Grand Chief elected at large, the
chiefs elected by each of the nine Cree communities of the territory, and one
other representative from each community. The Cree Nation of Mistissini is the
largest Cree community with 3,500 residents. 
On July 24, 2012, the Crees of Eeyou Istchee and the
Gouvernement du Québec signed the Agreement on Governance in the Eeyou
Istchee James Bay Territory. This agreement provides for the James Bay
Regional Government replacing the Municipalité de Baie-James. The James Bay
Regional Government is responsible for the management of Category III lands and
exercises the same jurisdictions, functions, and authority on Category III lands
in the Eeyou Istchee James Bay Territory as those formerly attributed to the
Municipalité de Baie-James. The James Bay Regional Government is directed by a
Council composed of 11 Cree representatives (the Grand Chief of the Cree Nation
Government along with ten other designates from elected members of the Council
of the Cree Nation Government), 11 Jamésien representatives (designated from
among elected members of the councils of the enclave municipalities and the
non-Crees residing within the James Bay Regional Government’s territory), and
one non-voting representative of the Québec government. Authorizations and
permits required for the development of all industrial projects are provided by
the James Bay Regional Government. 
Since the early stages of the Renard Diamond Mine, Stornoway
has developed and maintained significant communications and relations with
stakeholders including: the Cree Nation of Mistissini, the Grand Council of the
Crees (Eeyou Istchee), tallymen of Trapline M11 and the towns of Chibougamau,
Chapais and the Municipality of James Bay. Public meetings, field visits,
meetings with chiefs or mayors, environmental exchange group meetings, and
business meetings with contractors and suppliers are amongst the many activities
held by Stornoway on a regular basis. Stornoway has opened offices in Mistissini
and Chibougamau to facilitate communications with these parties. 
In March 2012, Stornoway completed negotiations with the Cree
Nation of Mistissini, the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the
Cree Regional Authority on the Mecheshoo Agreeement. The Mecheshoo Agreement is
a binding agreement that will govern the long-term working relationship between
Stornoway and the Cree parties during all phases of the Renard Diamond Mine. It
provides for training, employment and business opportunities for the Crees
during project construction, operation and closure, and sets out the principles
of social, cultural and environmental respect under which the project will be
managed. The Mecheshoo Agreement includes a mechanism by which the Cree parties
will benefit financially from the success of the project on a long term basis,
consistent with the mining industry's best practices for engagement with First
Nations communities. 
In July 2012, Stornoway executed the Declaration of Partnership
with the communities of Chibougamau and Chapais in the James Bay Region of
Québec. The Declaration of Partnership is a statement of cooperation between the
partners for the responsible development of the Renard Diamond Mine based on the principles of environmental protection, social
responsibility and economic viability. The Declaration of Partnership includes
provisions to set up a Renard Liaison Committee that will address issues of
mutual interest such as communication, employment, and the economic
diversification of local communities. In particular, the committee will oversee
initiatives to attract and retain new residents to the towns of Chibougamau and
Chapais. 
108

Permitting
The Renard Diamond Mine was subject to the provincial and
federal environmental and social assessment and review process under the
JBNQA, the Environment Quality Act (Québec) and the CEAA. On
December 28, 2011, Stornoway filed an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
meeting the requirements of the provincial and federal Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment guidelines and following that submission, public hearings on
the project were held by the federal Canadian government and Québec government
in June and August 2012, respectively. 
On December 4, 2012, Stornoway received the global Certificate
of Authorization for the Renard Diamond Mine from the Québec Ministère du
Développement durable, de l'Environnement et de la Lutte contre les changements
climatiques, which certificate was periodically amended since then as the
engineering and development plans of the Renard Diamond Mine refined. The
Certificate of Authorization represents the principal regulatory approval that
was required to commence mine construction. On July 12, 2013, Stornoway received
a positive Environmental Assessment Decision for the Renard Diamond Mine from
the CEAA. 
Under the Québec Mining Act, the holder of mining rights has
the responsibility to rehabilitate and restore the lands on which exploration
and/or development activities have been carried out. This work must be completed
in accordance with a restoration plan pre-approved by the MERN. In December
2012, Stornoway received approval from the MERN of the Renard Closure Plan.
Under the Québec Mining Act, a financial guarantee must be submitted to the MERN
to guarantee 100% of the rehabilitation costs of a mining project, in accordance
with a payment schedule prescribed by applicable regulation. On August 29, 2014,
Stornoway arranged for a surety bond of up to $15.2 million to provide a
financial guarantee to the MERN with respect to the Renard Closure Plan. The
obligation to pay the first tranche of $7.6 million was met in August 2014; the
second installment of $3.8 million was met in August 2015 and the third and last
installment in August 2016. 
Since the beginning of the construction phase of the Renard
Diamond Mine in July 2014, various additional operating permits have been sought
for site specific activities under the authority of the overall global
authorizations. 
Project Geology
The project area is located on the south-eastern portion of the
Superior Structural Province, bordered by Proterozoic rocks of the Labrador
Trough in the east and the Grenville Province in the south. This portion of the
Superior Craton is sometimes referred to as the “Ungava Craton”. Proterozoic
rocks of the Labrador Fold Belt in the east, the Cape Smith Fold Belt in the
north and the Grenville Province in the south surround the project area.
Northern portions of the Project area consist of north-northwest trending,
plutonic and gneissic terranes. Based on metamorphic grade, mineralogy,
lithology and aeromagnetic observations, the terranes appear to vary in width
from 70 km to 150 km. 
The Foxtrot Property is situated between the La Grande
greenstone (volcanic) belt to the north and the Eastmain greenstone (volcanic)
belt to the south. Granite-gneiss and retrograde granulite gneiss are the
predominant lithologies, with lesser amounts of granite and granodiorite.
Contained within the gneiss are relict metasedimentary and metavolcanic rock
assemblages along with associated mafic and ultramafic intrusive rocks. The
Otish Mountain and Mistassini groups of Proterozoic, clastic, metasedimentary
rocks overlie the Archean lithologies, marginal to the Grenville Province. Mafic
and ultramafic intrusive rocks of variable affinities are more common in the
southeast than in the southwest. 
109

Granite-gneiss and retrograde granulite gneisses of sedimentary
origin are the predominant lithologies in the property area; however, lesser
granite and granodiorite may also be present. The gneisses may contain relict
metasedimentary and metavolcanic rock assemblages, as well as associated mafic
and ultramafic intrusive rocks. Minor linear belts of supracrustal metavolcanic
rocks occur throughout the area, generally trending east-west or west-northwest.
Northwest-trending, Proterozoic Mistassini Swarm diabase and gabbro dykes up to
30 m wide cross-cut all lithologies. Isolated outliers of Proterozoic clastic
metasedimentary rocks are present in the area. 
Metamorphic grade within the Foxtrot area is primarily
amphibolite facies with local granulite facies being reported near Lac Minto.
Higher-grade lithologies in the north are interpreted as supracrustal relicts
dating to 3.1 Ga. Granite and granite gneiss are dated at 2.7 Ga and local
felsic and intermediate intrusive rocks are dated at 2.5 Ga. 
There are five known episodes of kimberlitic volcanism in
Québec; from south to north, the kimberlite fields are Témiscamingue,
Desmaraisville, Otish, Wemindji and Torngat. The Renard Cluster is considered to
be part of the 550 to 641 Ma Otish kimberlitic volcanic event. 
Quaternary glacial cover in the area was controlled by the New
Québec Ice Divide. From the divide, ice flowed north and northeast toward Ungava
Bay and west to southwest toward Hudson Bay. Glacial lineaments are well
developed and widespread. Glacial overburden within the Foxtrot Property can be
up to 34 m thick, but is on average 10 m thick in the area of the Renard
Cluster. Glacial deposits consist of till, eskers, moraine and post-glacial
sediments, and their orientation reflects ice transport from the
north-northeast. 
Exploration
All exploration has been carried out by Stornoway and its
predecessor companies. 
Since the inception of the Foxtrot Project, approximately
12,000 heavy mineral samples have been collected over a 400,000 km2
area of which some 8,140 lie within the current land holdings. Since 2000,
approximately 274 ground magnetic surveys (2,486 line kilometres), 204 ground
electromagnetic surveys (328 line kilometres) and 37,450 line kilometres of
airborne geophysical surveys have been completed on the Foxtrot Property. 
Structural mapping was undertaken in 2004 and 2006 to identify
structural controls that could help locate more kimberlitic intrusions or dykes.
The program results proved to be inconclusive. Geological mapping in October
2010 was to identify large-scale feature of interest interpreted from
geophysical data and aerial photographs. Overburden in targeted areas was
cleared to expose the bedrock for mapping. The program was successful in
highlighting two large faults and two smaller ones within the proposed mine
site. 
Sampling trenches excavated on Renard 4, Renard 65, Lynx,
Hibou, and the North Anomaly were mapped in detail prior to sampling. Mapping
was undertaken with grid control and reference points were surveyed by a
registered surveyor. 
During the underground bulk sampling program at Renard 2 and
Renard 3, geological mapping was completed on all workings. The face was mapped
after each round during the development of the ramp and drifts and, after the
underground excavation was completed, the ramp and drift walls were mapped in
the kimberlites. 
Mineralization
There are two types of diamond deposits: primary and secondary.
Primary deposits are those in which the diamonds remain inside the original host
rock (usually kimberlite) that conveyed them to the surface. Secondary deposits
are formed when the diamonds are eroded from the host rock and concentrated by
the action of water into alluvial deposits (in rivers) or marine deposits (in
beaches). The Renard kimberlites are primary deposits emplaced into granitic and gneissic host
rocks. Extensive sampling programs conducted between 2001 and 2014 have
demonstrated that the kimberlites contain diamonds of potential economic
interest. 
110

As of the date of the Renard Technical Report, nine kimberlite
 pipes have been identified over a 2 km2 area in the Renard Cluster
 (Renard 1 to Renard 10; with Renard 5 and Renard 6 forming one body, referred to
 as Renard 65). The kimberlite pipes are typically spaced between 50 m and 500 m
 from each other. Geophysical data and drill information from delineation and
 bulk sampling programs indicate that, in general, most of the Renard kimberlites
 are irregular and elliptical in plan view. Surface areas of the kimberlite
 portion of the pipes range from 0.1 ha to 2.0 ha. The Renard 2015 Mineral
 Resource Estimate describes Indicated/Inferred resources for the Renard 2,
 Renard 3, Renard 4, Renard 9 and Renard 65 pipes. The Renard 1, Renard 7 and
 Renard 10 pipes may have economic potential and are classified as TFFE. Two
 laterally extensive kimberlite dyke systems, known as the Lynx and Hibou dykes,
 have been identified to the west and northwest of the pipe cluster,
 respectively. Portions of both dykes are included in the mineral resource
 estimation. Additional dyke-like kimberlites have been discovered elsewhere on
 the property. These are not included in the Mineral Resource estimation but may
warrant additional work at a later date. 
The Renard kimberlite pipes comprise diatreme-zone to root-zone
kimberlites, with overall similar internal geologies. These pipes can be
classified as “typical” South-African-style kimberlites, and contain a variety
of phases that are distinguishable from one another by differing macroscopic and
microscopic properties as well as diamond grades. In most pipes, with the
exception of Renard 3 and Renard 10, the dominant phase is a massive
volcaniclastic kimberlite that can be classified as tuffacitic kimberlite
breccia. In general, these tuffasitic kimberlite breccias are extensively
altered and have a massive texture. They consist of varying amounts of olivine,
juvenile clasts and country rock xenoliths that are poorly sorted, typically
loosely packed and less commonly clast supported, all set within a highly
altered interclast matrix. In many pipes an additional pipe-filling phase is
present that is typically a more coherent or transitional kimberlite
characterized by lower country rock xenolith content and higher olivine content
set within a crystalline to semi-crystalline groundmass. In all bodies,
hypabyssal kimberlite is present as both dykes and irregularly shaped intrusions
that are found within each pipe infilling phase, between contacts of phases and
along pipe margins. These are typically considered later stage intrusions. The
hypabyssal kimberlite intrusions can vary in thickness from a few centimetres to
several metres and, in the case of the Lynx and Hibou dyke system, for example,
can be laterally extensive. 
The Renard pipe-like bodies are all associated with extensive
cracked country rock created during the emplacement event and, with the
exception of Renard 3 and Renard 8, have a significant marginal CRB. The cracked
country rock consists of both broken and solid country rock with small amounts
of HK dykes and veins throughout, and minor zones containing kimberlite-derived
constituents. The CRB typically lies between the main kimberlite units and the
cracked country rock, and is characterized by dominantly broken and pulverized
clast-supported country rock, with an overall dilution of 95% or greater. CRB
contains up to 5% of kimberlitic components, present as olivine, rare altered
magmaclasts and very rare garnet xenocrysts in the breccia matrix. The CRB
contains a significant amount of additional diamond-bearing kimberlitic
material, in the form of late-stage, cross-cutting HK dykes, and helps to define
the pipe shape. 
Previous U-Pb dating of groundmass perovskite in HK dykes
within Renard 1 suggested an emplacement age of 631.6 +/- 3.5 Ma. Recent data
obtained for the main rock-types in Renard 2 and Renard 3 using the same method
suggest an emplacement age of 640.5 +/- 2.8 Ma. 
Drilling
All drilling has been carried out under the control of
Stornoway and predecessor company Ashton Mining Canada Inc. A total of 900 drill
holes (132,719 m) has been drilled on the property since 2001, comprising 36 RC
holes (6,151 m) and 631 exploration core holes (120,994 m), 35 geomechanical
holes (3,471 m), 133 geotechnical holes (1,219 m) and 64 hydrogeological holes
(884 m). Total surface drilling on a year-to-year basis for exploration work is
summarized in Table 1.2. During 2007, and as part of the underground bulk sample work, 22 holes were drilled from underground on
Renard 2 (1,508 m) and 21 holes from underground on Renard 3 (874 m). These 43
holes are included in the totals above, and in Table 1.2. 
111

Vertical and angled holes were drilled through the kimberlite
 bodies, from which three dimensional geological models were constructed for
 resource estimation. Drilling intersections are therefore not related to true
thickness of mineralization. 
Between 2001 and 2002, drilling was completed for early-stage,
exploration-focused programs for all the bodies except for Renard 9 and Renard
10, which were discovered in 2003 and 2005, respectively. From 2003, drilling
was used primarily to support advanced-stage project evaluation and deposit
delineation by providing bulk and mini-bulk samples. Target exploration drilling
was undertaken between 2001 and 2010. Drilling in 2011 and 2012 was focussed on
collecting data to support the proposed mine plan and infrastructure design, and
drilling in 2014 concentrated on the Renard 2 kimberlite. 
Table 1.2: Summary of Exploration Drill Programs 

 
 Program by
 Year 
 Number
 of Core Holes 
 Number
 of Extended Holes 
 Drilled
 Metres (core) 
 Number of
 RC Holes 
 Drilled
 Metres (RC) 
 
 
 
 
 2001 
 6 
 0 
 554 
 0 
 0 
 
 2002 
 33 
 0 
 4,688 
 0 
 0 
 
 2003 
 71 
 0 
 12,642 
 0 
 0 
 
 2004 
 104 
 0 
 17,699 
 23 
 4,157 
 
 2005 
 137 
 3 
 25,914 
 0 
 0 
 
 2006 
 90 
 1 
 11,343 
 5 
 805 
 
 2007 
 95 
 3 
 12,243 
 8 
 1,189 
 
 2008 
 16 
 0 
 2,160 
 0 
 0 
 
 2009 
 29 
 5 
 16,506 
 0 
 0 
 
 2010 
 12 
 2 
 5,209 
 0 
 0 
 
 2014 
 38 
 0 
 12,036 
 0 
 0 
 
 Total 
 631 
 14 
 120,994 
 36 
 6,151 
Of the exploration drill holes listed above, 497 holes
totalling 101,078 m were used in the Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate
(totals therefore exclude work on Renard 1, Renard 7, Renard 8 and Renard 10 as
they do not contain “mineral resources” as defined by NI 43-101 and related
documents). 
All exploratory borehole locations were verified by hand-held
GPS units with no differential correction. Exploration drill hole azimuths and
inclinations are set using a compass and protractor, respectively. Final
exploration borehole inclinations are surveyed using an “acid test” system.
Delineation and mini-bulk hole collar locations are determined by a registered
surveyor using GPS equipment with sub-centimetre accuracy. The downhole track of
core holes drilled at Renard 2, Renard 3, Renard 4, Renard 65, Renard 7, Renard
8, Renard 9, and Renard 10 were surveyed with borehole survey instruments to
determine the azimuths and inclinations. All the core holes drilled on the
property are surveyed for magnetic susceptibility.
While drilling for delineation or mini-bulk samples, detailed
geotechnical observations have been recorded from exploration drill core. All
holes are logged for geotechnical parameters such as total core recovery, rock
quality designation, intact rock strength, weathering/alteration, joint
orientation, joint condition rating and fracture frequency in order to obtain
rock mass quality values. Beginning in 2009, holes have been drilled to produce
oriented core for the purpose of obtaining orientation data from the core.
Azimuth (Alpha) and inclination (Beta) measurements for all fractures in the
oriented drill core were recorded to aid in the development of a geotechnical
model of the project site. 
112

Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security
Three basic levels of progressively larger diamond sampling
procedures are summarized below (caustic fusion sampling, mini-bulk sampling and
bulk sampling), followed by descriptions of the comparable core, reverse
circulation, trenching and underground sample programs. Determining the moisture
content of each sample prior to processing through caustic fusion, DMS or bulk
density is necessary to allow an accurate dry weight of the kimberlite to be
calculated. The dry bulk density database comprises 2,127 bulk density records,
consisting of 1,672 measurements from drill core and 455 from bulk sampling.
When multiple measurements from the same sample, and multiple subsamples from
the same rock are averaged, and the laboratory quality control checks removed,
there are 1,770 spatially discrete density samples. Density variations did not
show a correlation with country rock dilution, nor was there a clearly
demonstrable change of density with increasing depth in the kimberlite pipes.

Caustic Fusion Sampling: The caustic fusion process is
used to evaluate, characterize and correlate the diamond potential of individual
kimberlite lithologies, and to provide data to facilitate the grade estimation
process. The objective of this type of test is to extract all diamonds greater
than 0.1 mm in size, through chemical dissolution of the host rock sample.
Individual samples may vary in size from a few kilograms to hundreds of
kilograms, depending on the available material and the specific purpose of the
testing. 
Kimberlite may be collected from drill core, float boulders,
subcrop, outcrop, underground exposures and subsamples of material in a process
facility or a combination thereof. Kimberlite is collected, described and
recorded by the site geologists following protocols in place at the time.
Samples are individually numbered, weighted, sealed in a tamper-resistant
container appropriate for the volume of material, and transported to the test
facility by a combination of charter aircraft and commercial couriers.
Individual sample results from comparable kimberlite units may be merged
together to provide larger, statistically more representative, samples. 
During the Renard Diamond Mine exploration programs,
microdiamonds were recovered by one internal facility situated in North
Vancouver, British Columbia (owned and operated by Stornoway) and four external
unrelated commercial facilities: Microlithics Laboratories Inc. located in
Thunder Bay, Ontario; SRC, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan; TBMPL (owned and operated by
Kennecott Canada Exploration Inc.), Thunder Bay; Ontario; and, SGS Lakefield
Research Ltd. in Lakefield, Ontario. 
Mini-Bulk Sampling: Although there is no formal
industry-accepted definition of a “mini-bulk” sample, many companies would agree
that the term is generally used to refer to the processing of kimberlite
material up to several tens of tonnes. This material may be derived from drill
core, RC chips, boulders, subcrop, outcrop, trenches or underground workings.
Mini-bulk samples are usually processed through DMS equipment that, depending on
specifications and diamond recovery objectives of a particular program, may be
configured to recover diamonds of greater than 0.5 mm, 0.85 mm or 1.18 mm on
square-mesh screens. In some cases caustic dissolution or other extraction
techniques may be utilized to recover the diamonds. All of Stornoway's mini-bulk
samples were processed through DMS equipment, and the diamond content is based
upon stones retained on either 1.18 mm square-mesh screens or +1 DTC screens.
Stornoway's mini-bulk sampling programs have used drill core, RC chips,
boulders, and surface trenches to source kimberlite material. 
Bulk Sampling: Although there is no formal
industry-accepted definition of a “bulk” sample, many companies would agree that
the term is generally used to refer to the processing of kimberlite material
exceeding several tens of tonnes. This material may be derived from drill core,
RC chips, boulders, subcrop, outcrop, trenches or underground workings. Bulk
samples are usually processed through DMS equipment that, depending on
specifications and diamond recovery objectives of a particular program, may be
configured to recover diamonds of greater than 0.85 mm or 1.18 mm on square-mesh
screens. In some cases larger screen sizes or other extraction techniques may be
utilized for diamond recovery. All of Stornoway's bulk samples reported herein
comprise either surface trench or underground sample material, and were processed through DMS equipment. The reported diamond content
is based upon stones retained on either 1.18 mm square mesh or +1 DTC screens.
113

Certain drill core collected during historical drill programs
 was composited and treated for macrodiamond recovery. RC chip sampling programs
 were undertaken with objectives that varied from collecting a large amount of
 kimberlite to create representative samples, to characterizing the grade over
 various depth intervals, to regular sampling intervals. Since 2005, several
 thousand tonnes of kimberlitic material have been excavated from trenches on the
 Renard 4 and Renard 65 bodies and Lynx, Hibou and North Anomaly dykes.
Macrodiamond sample results are summarized in Table 1.3. 
Table 1.3: Summary of Macrodiamond Sampling Results 

 
 Kimberlite Body
 
 Sample Type 
 Year 
 Number of
 Samples 
 Weight (dry
 t) 
 Total Carats
 (+1 DTC) 
 
 
 Renard 1 
 Drill Core 
 2002 
 1 
 0.3 
 0.00 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003 
 11 
 10.0 
 0.73 
 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 4 
 2.9 
 0.02 
 
 Renard 2 
 Drill Core 
 2002 
 7 
 5.0 
 3.29 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003 
 8 
 8.6 
 5.24 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004 
 9 
 12.5 
 13.45 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005 
 16 
 6.7 
 4.96 
 
 Drill Core 
 2006 
 7 
 2.8 
 2.71 
 
 RC Chips 
 2004 
 12 
 171.2 
 146.96 
 
 RC Chips 
 2007 
 15 
 86.8 
 70.95 
 
 Underground 
 2006/2007 
 15 
 2448.8 
 1601.94 
 
 Underground (drums) 
 2014/2015 
 7 
 1.4 
 1.77 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 71 
 54.6 
 44.65 
 
 Renard 3 
 Drill Core 
 2002 
 5 
 4.9 
 6.47 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004 
 13 
 13.8 
 13.66 
 
 RC Chips 
 2004 
 10 
 157.0 
 185.11 
 
 RC Chips 
 2007 
 13 
 59.4 
 34.86 
 
 Underground 
 2006/2007 
 13 
 2113.7 
 2799.85 
 
 Renard 4 
 Drill Core 
 2002 
 6 
 4.8 
 2.94 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003 
 15 
 12.4 
 5.32 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004 
 36 
 32.4 
 13.62 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005 
 1 
 0.5 
 0.48 
 
 RC Chips 
 2004 
 17 
 141.8 
 53.23 
 
 RC Chips 
 2006 
 14 
 41.4 
 33.21 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2004 
 2 
 1.8 
 3.09 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2005 
 6 
 9.8 
 17.76 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2006/2007 
 7 
 2104.2 
 2721.88 
114

 
 Renard 65 
 Drill Core 
 2002 
 2 
 0.8 
 1.19 
 
 Drill Core 
 2003 
 23 
 19.8 
 8.47 
 
 Drill Core 
 2004 
 22 
 17.9 
 4.05 
 
 RC Chips 
 2004 
 18 
 149.6 
 32.50 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2007 
 2 
 266.0 
 51.77 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2012 
 1 
 5080.8 
 963.38 
 
 Renard 7 
 Drill Core 
 2005 
 4 
 4.1 
 0.10 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 3 
 2.3 
 0.00 
 
 Renard 8 
 Drill Core 
 2005 
 4 
 6.1 
 0.47 
 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 2 
 1.4 
 0.03 
 
 Renard 9 
 Drill Core 
 2004 
 6 
 6.0 
 5.65 
 
 Drill Core 
 2005 
 4 
 6.2 
 6.38 
 
 RC Chips 
 2006 
 19 
 70.3 
 35.84 
 
 RC Chips 
 2007 
 5 
 27.3 
 11.97 
 
 Renard 10 
 Drill Core 
 2014/2015 
 3 
 1.7 
 0.00 
 
 Hibou 
 Surface Sample 
 2005 
 5 
 19.8 
 4.68 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2006 
 2 
 31.4 
 39.53 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2008 
 1 
 543.9 
 781.41 
 
 Lynx 
 Surface Sample 
 2003 
 3 
 3.9 
 4.46 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2004 
 2 
 10.3 
 14.92 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2005 
 6 
 34.7 
 42.33 
 
 Surface Sample 
 2007 
 3 
 494.3 
 528.93 
 
 North Anomaly 
 Surface Sample 
 2006/2008 
 3 
 46.4 
 44.90 
Four DMS process facilities have been used as primary
macrodiamond extraction laboratories during the Renard exploration programs to
date: two separate third party commercial facilities (a 10 tonnes per hour plant
owned by TBMPL and a 1.5 tonnes per hour plant operated by Microlithics) and two
facilities owned and operated by Stornoway (a 5 tonnes per hour plant in North
Vancouver, British Columbia and a 10 tonnes per hour plant at Camp Lagopède,
Québec). 
Diamond bearing concentrates generated by DMS processing of
underground bulk samples, large tonnage trench samples and RC chip samples from
the Renard Diamond Mine were all subjected to final processing at Stornoway’s
North Vancouver laboratory facilities. The diamond recovery circuit includes a
sizing circuit, an X-ray flow-sort machine and grease table equipment. All
processing of concentrates was undertaken in secured, controlled access,
closed-circuit TV monitored areas of the North Vancouver facilities. DMS
operations, post-processing treatment of DMS concentrates, observing, and
post-observation handling of concentrates and diamonds, from 2004 to the
present, were conducted under approved security protocols and procedures, which
include but are not limited to: 

 
 
 • 
 Chain of Custody documentation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Dual locking containers; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Uniquely numbered, single use, tamper resistant
 seals; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Monitoring and control of sample weights;
 
115

 
 
 • 
 Limited access or dual access to certain
 laboratory premises; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Closed-circuit TV surveillance; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 External (third party) security guards.
 
Comparative analysis of diamond size distribution is checked
against historical and external laboratory results. Data collected from the
various exploration, mini-bulk, and sampling programs were collated into an SQL
Server relational database where access is restricted to the database
administrator only. The database is stored on the server in the North Vancouver
office, with backups being performed every day. Processing and diamond results
hard copy data are stored in fire resistant filing cabinets in the North
Vancouver office as are hard copy data of the Renard core field logging. In
addition, these hardcopies have been scanned as digital PDF files which are
stored on the server. 
QA/QC programs conducted by Stornoway include:

 
 
 • 
 
 Blind spiking of samples in processing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Blind spiking of samples in observing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Regular testing of all machines and equipment; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Calibration and verification procedures; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Routine audits of non- observable fractions and reject
 materials; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Use of internal standards and reference materials;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A record- keeping system of documentation, which retains
 in archives all original records and data, with all amendments clearly
 marked, initialled and dated for reference; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Corrective actions which are implemented immediately when
 any aspect of laboratory analysis, or chain of custody documentation does
 not conform to procedural standards; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The investigation and verification of any result which
 appears to be a potential statistical anomaly, to ensure laboratory
 results fit within the geological context; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Use of external laboratories for check samples including
 QP visits. 
As part of the independent expert review, the following
verification checks were conducted on the Foxtrot Property: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Site visits from March 5 to March 8, 2009; August 21,
 2012; July 29 to July 31, 2014; and April 20 to April 22, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of the surface and underground geological and
 mineralization interpretations; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of the historic and current exploration programs;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of deposit model; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of data that are supporting Mineral Resource
 models. The review covered drill core inspection, review of core logging,
 sampling and assay protocols and methods, and review of sample security
 measures and sample storage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of QA/QC data protocols and methods, data
 integrity and validation of RC, drill core and underground data, and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Review of diamond valuation methodologies.
 
Independent samples were not collected and treated since this
is not practical for diamond sampling. Stornoway’s published and practiced
procedures for collection of data in the field and transposition of these data into data “products” to support resource evaluation work
and initial costing exercises meet industry best practice guidelines. 
116

These data have been collected, compiled and analyzed by a
 combination of methodologies in order to cater to the spatial distribution of
 sampling and the amount of information available for each kimberlite domain in
each body. 
Unlike commodities such as gold or base metals, diamonds do not
have a standard value per unit weight that can be used to calculate value of a
deposit. A one carat diamond can be worth from less than one dollar to tens of
thousands of dollars, depending on the shape, colour and quality. A parcel of
diamonds must be individually examined to establish an average value. While
diamond values also vary over time, the trend has been towards an increase with
time. Multiple valuations from different professional diamond valuers, or
diamantaires, are necessary, and are usually averaged to give an estimate of the
probable true price of the goods in question. Diamond price estimates can differ
between valuers by as much as ± 20%. This is especially so on smaller parcels of
diamonds. These differences are simply due to the fact that different
diamantaires will perceive the value of a stone or parcel of stones differently.
Their price guidelines will differ somewhat as well. 
A cumulative 8,315.58 carat diamond parcel acquired by bulk
sampling underground, trench sampling and RC drilling completed by Stornoway
between 2003 and 2007 was used for value modelling. In a valuation exercise, it
is necessary to involve a number of diamantaires to obtain a range of valuations
that can be averaged to get an accurate price estimate and to use these data to
model an average price. Often, in early stage evaluations of diamond projects,
diamond price modelling is undertaken. In price modelling, the small sample size
is compensated for by estimation of what the diamond population in a larger
sample would be. By doing this, the valuer attempts to predict the likelihood of
finding larger stones and what their effect on the overall value of the parcel
would be and, as such, estimate more closely what the run-of-mine value would
be. Modelling involves study of the diamond parcel on hand, including size
distributions and valuations, to statistically estimate the upper and lower
limits of a production parcel at certain confidence levels based upon the small
parcel on hand. To accomplish this, Stornoway contracted WWW IDC to obtain
valuations and perform price modelling. WWW IDC are recognized international
leaders in this field. 
Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves
Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate 
Following a 2014 deep directional drill program at the Renard 2
kimberlite, and extensive related sampling activities both at Renard 2 and other
project kimberlites, an updated Mineral Resource estimate was completed in
accordance with the CIM Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve definitions
referred to in NI 43-101 and reported on September 24, 2015, for Renard 2,
Renard 3 and Renard 4. That work, as well as a target for further exploration
for the Renard 1, Renard 7 and Renard 10 kimberlite pipes and the Hibou
kimberlite dyke system, was more fully documented in an NI 43-101 technical
report entitled “2015 Mineral Resource Update for the Renard Diamond Project,
Québec, Canada” with an effective date of September 24, 2015 (available on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com). 
The Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate comprises the
integration of kimberlite volumes, density, petrology and diamond content data
derived from 101,078 m of diamond drilling (497 holes), 6,151 m of large
diameter reverse circulation (RC) drilling (36 holes), 23.7 tonnes of samples
submitted for microdiamond analysis, 196 carats (cts) of diamonds (3,107 stones)
recovered from drill core, 605 cts of diamonds (7,181 stones) recovered from RC
drilling, 4,404 cts of diamonds (40,521 stones) recovered from underground bulk
sampling and 5,219 cts of diamonds (52,474 stones) recovered from surface and
trench sampling. The estimate also incorporates information derived from
approximately 150 drill holes, 37 surface test pits and 12 trenches undertaken
for geotechnical and hydrogeological purposes. Results are tabulated in Table
1.4 and Table 1.5. The Renard 2015 Mineral Resource Estimate is based on the
continuity of geology between kimberlite at depth and kimberlite nearer surface,
and the generally low variation in sample results for the different kimberlite
phases with depth. 
117

Table 1.4: September 2015 Indicated Mineral Resources of the
Renard Diamond Mine

 
 Deposit 
 Total
 Tonnes(4) 
 Total
 Carats(4) 
 Average
 cpht(5) 
 Average
 Dilution % 
 
 Renard 2 Total Renard 2 w/o CRB(6) 
 Renard 2 CRB 
 25,696,000 21,417,000
 4,279,000 
 21,578,000 20,680,000
 899,000 
 84.0 96.6 21.0
 
 54.7 46.4 96.0
 
 
 Renard 3 
 1,820,000 
 1,859,000 
 102.2 
 33.5 
 
 Renard 4 
 7,246,000 
 4,437,000 
 61.2 
 48.9 
 
 Renard 65 
 7,865,000 
 2,300,000 
 29.2 
 42.8 
 
 Renard 9 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 n/a 
 
 Lynx 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 n/a 
 
 Hibou 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 n/a 
 
 Total 
 42,627,000 
 30,175,000 
 70.8 
 50.6 
 
 Note: 
 
 
 
 

 
 (1) 
 
 Effective date is September 24, 2015.
 
 (2) 
 
 Classified according to CIM Definition
 Standards.
 
 (3) 
 
 Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not
 have demonstrated economic viability.
 
 (4) 
 
 Totals may not add due to rounding.
 
 (5) 
 
 Carats per hundred tonnes. Estimated at a +1 DTC sieve
 size cut-off.
 
 (6) 
 
 Excludes discrete more dilute kimberlite facies not
 previously incorporated into July 2013 Resource. Provided to facilitate
 more direct comparison with 2013 Mineral Resource
 estimate.
Table 1.5: September 2015 Inferred Mineral Resources of the
Renard Diamond Mine

 
 
 Deposit 
 Total
 Tonnes(4) 
 Total
 Carats(4) 
 Average
 cpht(5) 
 Average
 Dilution % 
 
 Renard 2 Total Renard 2 w/o CRB(6) 
 Renard 2 CRB 
 6,589,000 4,080,000
 2,510,000 
 3,883,000 3,356,000
 527,000 
 58.9 82.3 21.0 
 72.8 58.5 96.0
 
 
 Renard 3 
 542,000 
 609,000 
 112.3 
 39.4 
 
 Renard 4 
 4,750,000 
 2,455,000 
 51.7 
 56.3 
 
 Renard 65 
 4,928,000 
 1,181,000 
 24.0 
 56.5 
 
 Renard 9 
 5,704,000 
 3,040,000 
 53.3 
 63.6 
 
 Lynx 
 1,798,000 
 1,924,000 
 107 
 n/a 
 
 Hibou 
 178,000 
 256,000 
 144 
 n/a 
 
 Total 
 24,490,000 
 13,348,000 
 54.5 
 n/a 
Notes:

 
 (1) 
 
 Effective date is September 24, 2015
 
 (2) 
 
 Classified according to CIM Definition
 Standards.
 
 (3) 
 
 Mineral Resources are not Mineral Reserves and do not
 have demonstrated economic viability.
 
 (4) 
 
 Totals may not add due to
rounding.

 
 (5) 
 
 Carats per hundred tonnes. Estimated at a +1 DTC sieve
 size cut-off.
 
 (6) 
 
 Excludes discrete more dilute kimberlite facies not
 previously incorporated into July 2013 Indicated Resource. Provided to
 facilitate more direct comparison with 2013 Mineral Resource
estimate.
118

There is additional potential for the project, as the
geological models for Renard 2, Renard 3, Renard 4, Renard 65, and Renard 9 are
based on conservative geometries for the kimberlites at depth, and the models do
not incorporate areas of limited drilling at depth. New work was also undertaken
during 2013, 2014 and 2015 on the Renard 1, Renard 7, Renard 8 and Renard 10
kimberlite pipes, and various kimberlite dyke systems on the property. The TFFE
- previously known as PMD before the June 30, 2011 revisions to NI 43-101 - are
detailed in Table 1.6. Total TFFE was identified as representing between 76 and
113 million tonnes, containing between 33 and 71 million carats of diamonds, at
an average grade of 43 to 63 cpht. The potential quantity and grade of any TFFE
is conceptual in nature, there is insufficient exploration to define a Mineral
Resource and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the target
being delineated as a Mineral Resource. 
Table 1.6: September 2015 Target For Further Exploration of
the Renard Diamond Mine 

 
 Low Range 
 High Range 
 
 Deposit 
 Total Tonnes 
 Total Carats 
 Average
 cpht 
 Total
 Tonnes 
 Total Carats 
 Average
 cpht 
 
 
 Renard 2 
 6,138,000 
 3,683,000 
 60 
 15,472,000 
 15,472,000 
 100 
 
 Renard 3 
 3,352,000 
 3,520,000 
 105 
 3,773,000 
 6,338,000 
 168 
 
 Renard 4 
 11,120,000 
 5,560,000 
 50 
 15,358,000 
 11,826,000 
 77 
 
 Renard 65 
 29,026,000 
 7,257,000 
 25 
 40,926,000 
 13,506,000 
 33 
 
 Renard 9 
 3,858,000 
 2,006,000 
 52 
 6,327,000 
 4,302,000 
 68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lynx 
 3,089,000 
 2,966,000 
 96 
 3,199,000 
 3,839,000 
 120 
 
 Hibou 
 3,469,000 
 3,608,000 
 104 
 4,028,000 
 6,082,000 
 151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 1 
 8,620,000 
 1,724,000 
 20 
 12,983,000 
 3,895,000 
 30 
 
 Renard 7 
 6,342,000 
 1,902,000 
 30 
 9,431,000 
 3,772,000 
 40 
 
 Renard 10 
 1,217,000 
 730,000 
 60 
 1,730,000 
 2,076,000 
 120 
 
 Total(2) 
 76,232,000 
 32,956,000 
 43 
 113,227,000 
 71,108,000 
 63 
Notes:

 
 (1) 
 
 Previously known as PMD prior to June 30, 2011 changes to
 NI 43-101.
 
 (2) 
 
 Totals may not equal the sum of the individuals due to
 rounding.

For the purposes of the Renard Technical Report, only the
Indicated Mineral Resources were considered.
Mineral Reserves
A detailed mine plan was developed to extract the Indicated
Mineral Resources of the Renard Diamond Mine. Dilution and recovery assumptions
were applied, and cut-off grades were calculated using preliminary costs and
diamond valuations. Open pit and underground Probable Mineral Reserves were
estimated independently based on criteria specific to each method. A
reconciliation of the Indicated Mineral Resources included in the open pit and
underground mine plans was completed, confirming that all available resources
were included. 
119

The Renard 2 and Renard 3 kimberlite pipes will be mined
through a combination of open pit and underground mining methods while the
Renard 65 pipe will be mined by open pit method only and Renard 4 pipe will be
mined by underground methods only. 
Open Pit: Reserves for the surface mine design are
reported according to CIM standards. According to these standards, resource
model blocks classified as Measured and Indicated are reported as Proven and
Probable mineral reserves respectively. Owing to those reporting standards, the
Inferred Resources cannot be included as reserves and so have not been included
in the life of mine schedule. No resource blocks are classified as Measured and
therefore no part of the Mineral Reserve classifies as Proven. The total
Probable Mineral Reserve includes an ore dilution factor and an ore recovery
factor to estimate a recoverable mining reserve. 
The ore outline mining shapes consisted of expanding the
modelled kimberlite solids to incorporate a 1 m dilution envelope. Specific
dilution factors were estimated for each kimberlite orebody through compilations
performed on a bench by bench basis. The dilution envelope is assumed not to
contain diamonds and is therefore considered to be of zero grade. The dilution
factors by bench per kimberlite pipe are shown in Tables 1.7 and 1.8. For
Mineral Reserve estimation, a 98% mine recovery factor was then applied to
account for ore unrecovered at the edge of the orebody. The cut-off grades used
for the Mineral Reserve estimation are shown in Table 1.9. 
Table 1.7: R2, R3 & R65 Dilution by
Bench

 
 Bench 
 Bench Dilution (%)
 
 
 R2 
 R3 
 CRB 
 CRB2a 
 R65 
 
 500 
 - 
 10.1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 490 
 4.4 
 10.5 
 4.4 
 3.4 
 - 
 
 480 
 1.6 
 12.9 
 3.3 
 2.5 
 4.2 
 
 470 
 0.8 
 13.6 
 3.4 
 2.3 
 3.8 
 
 460 
 0.9 
 16.6 
 3.5 
 2.1 
 3.6 
 
 450 
 1.5 
 12.6 
 3.3 
 1.9 
 3.7 
 
 440 
 1.7 
 10.8 
 4.6 
 2.0 
 3.6 
 
 430 
 2.0 
 9.8 
 5.3 
 1.7 
 4.1 
 
 420 
 2.6 
 9.1 
 5.3 
 1.3 
 3.6 
 
 410 
 2.4 
 9.3 
 6.7 
 1.1 
 3.8 
 
 400 
 1.3 
 5.5 
 6.2 
 0.6 
 3.6 
 
 390 
 0.5 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.6 
 
 380 
 0.2 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.5 
 
 370 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.5 
 
 360 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.6 
 
 350 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.1 
 
 Average 
 1.72 
 11.44 
 4.32 
 1.75 
 3.51 
120

Table 1.8: Average Dilution Factors 

 
 Dilution 
 R2 (Kimb2a; Kimb2b;
 CRB2a; CRB) 
 R3 
 R65 
 
 Diluted Ore Tonnage 
 4,333,020 
 793,719 
 4,578,679 
 
 Dilution Factor 
 2.73% 
 11.44% 
 3.51% 
Table 1.9: Open Pit Cut-off grade (cpht) 

 
 R2 (Kimb2a; Kimb2b; CRB2a;
 CRB) 
 R3 
 R65 
 
 16.2 
 22.1 
 17.0 
The total in-situ open pit Probable Mineral Reserve is
estimated at 8.91 million tonnes of ore at an average diluted grade of 44.4 cpht
for 3.96 million carats. The Renard 3 pipe has the highest average diamond grade
at 92.3 cpht, followed by Renard 2 at an average grade of 59.6 cpht (after
inclusion of the “CRB” and “CRB-2A” units). Renard 65 is a lower
grade pit containing 4.58 Mt of ore at an average grade of 30.1 cpht for 1.38
million carats. As of December 31, 2015, 153 kt of ore have been mined and
stockpiled containing an estimated 113 thousand carats. 
Underground: The first step in the estimation of the
underground Probable Mineral Reserves was to create 3-D shapes for each of the
proposed stopes based on the Indicated Mineral Resource model and the planned
mining method. Practical shapes compatible with the planned development of the
drawpoint levels and drill drifts, available drill patterns, the type of
drilling equipment selected, and likely post blast outlines, were created. The
pipes outlines in some areas are irregular and in these areas practical
(smoothed) mining outlines were created, which typically encapsulated some waste
rock and occasionally excluded some kimberlite. Once all volumes were created,
the tonnage and grade of all the Indicated Mineral Resources contained within
each stope shape were queried using the resource block model, Deswik software
and excel spreadsheet for the resource to reserve conversion. 
The modifying factors of mining recovery and external dilution
of BHS mining have been applied to the contained Indicated Mineral Resource and
waste in the stope shapes. The assumptions of recovery and dilution for BHS
mining used for the Renard Technical Report are listed in Table 1.10 .
Additional simulations will be performed to optimise these factors as the mining
strategy is being refined for R2, and new simulations will be done for R3 and R4
to validate current assumptions. 
Table 1.10: Assumptions of Recovery and Dilution of BHS
Mining 

 
 Modifying Factor 
 Pipe 
 
 
 R2 
 R3 
 R4 
 
 Mining Dilution 
 20% 
 14% 
 14% 
 
 Mining Recovery 
 82% 
 85% 
 78% 
Considerations for recovery and dilution estimate assumptions
for BHS mining were the following: 

 
 
 • 
 
 the first 35% of the production is swell, which is
 expected to have very low dilution. When the stope is full of blasted ore,
 the first 50% to 60% of the drawdown is also expected to have very low
 dilution and high recovery. When backfill waste starts mixing with the ore
 as it is drawn down, it is expected that dilution for each tonne drawn
 will start increasing significantly; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 placement of drawpoints and drawdown planning are
 critical to achieve mass flow and minimize “rat-holing” of the blasted ore
 in the stope during drawdown; 
121 

 
 
 • 
 
 grade of all external dilution has been assumed to be
 zero, even if it is known that the CRB units, which surround the pipes in
 many locations, contain diamonds; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 for internal design dilution, a grade of 21 cpht has been
 assumed for the CRB above the 300 m elevation (Indicated Resources). The
 grade of the CRB below this elevation (Inferred Resources) was assumed at
 0 cpht, the same for all other waste rock units; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 it is expected that much of the dilution will come from
 open pit waste rock, placed on top of the blasted kimberlite, which will
 contain no grade; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 material from drawcones located mostly in waste will be
 screened according to the following guidelines:

 
 
 • 
 waste/ore percentage < 75% = 0% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 250% > waste/ore percentage > 75% = 33%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 750% > waste/ore percentage > 250% = 67%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 750% < waste/ore percentage = 100%
 

 
 
 • 
 
 where a significant amount of blasted waste is included
 in the stope design, it was considered that it would either be left in the
 stopes (if on top of the ore) or screened (if below the ore) following the
 assumption that 33% will be mixed with the blasted ore and recovered, and
 67% will be left in place at the end of the stope extraction. This was
 done on a stope by stope basis, making sure that it is operationally
 feasible. 
At the very bottom level (710L for Renard 2 and 270L for Renard
4), the kimberlite remaining on the underside of the drawpoint troughs will not
be recovered as part of BHS mining. At the very end of the mine life, sublevel
retreat mining will be used, to recover this ore. Up holes will be drilled from
all the drawpoints and scram drifts located below the troughs and cones, and
then the holes will be blasted and the ore mucked in a retreat fashion. 
At this stage, the mine-life estimated average recovery and
dilution factors have been applied to each individual mined block (drawcone,
stopes and sills) as not enough information is available to perform this
exercise on a stope by stope basis. These factors will certainly vary for each
mined block. 
The grade of all the stopes was compared to the cut-off grades
shown in Table 1.11, and all stopes were found to exceed this cut-off. 
Table 1.11: Underground Cut-off grade (cpht) 

 
 R2 (Kimb2a; Kimb2b; CRB2a;
 CRB) 
 R3 
 R4 
 
 29.2 
 36.6 
 37.1 
Of the three underground pipes in the Probable Mineral Reserve,
Renard 2 contains 81% of the tonnes and 86% of the carats, Renard 4 contains 14%
of the tonnes and 9% of the carats, and Renard 3 contains 5% of the tonnes and
carats. 
All open pit and underground Mineral Reserves are in the
“Probable” category. A consolidated summary of open pit and underground Probable
Mineral Reserves, by mining method and pipe, effective as of December 31, 2015,
is presented in Table 1.12. 
122 

Table 1.12: Probable Mineral Reserve Summary - Open Pit and
Underground 

 
 Mine 
 Tonnes
 (k) 
 Grade
 (cpht) 
 Carats
 (k) 
 %
 Tonnes Total 
 %
 CaratsTotal 
 %
 TonnesMethod 
 %
 CaratsMethod 
 
 OPEN PIT
 
 R2 
 1,489 
 92.7 
 1,381 
 4.5% 
 6.2% 
 16.7% 
 34.9% 
 
 CRB2A 
 475 
 31.4 
 149 
 1.4% 
 0.7% 
 5.3% 
 3.8% 
 
 CRB 
 1,575 
 20.2 
 319 
 4.7% 
 1.4% 
 17.7% 
 8.1% 
 
 R2 Subtotal 
 3,539 
 52.2 
 1,849 
 10.6% 
 8.4% 
 39.7% 
 46.7% 
 
 R3 Subtotal 
 794 
 92.3 
 733 
 2.4% 
 3.3% 
 8.9% 
 18.5% 
 
 R65 Subtotal 
 4,579 
 30.1 
 1,376 
 13.8% 
 6.2% 
 51.4% 
 34.8% 
 
 TOTAL OP 
 8,912 
 44.4 
 3,958 
 26.8% 
 17.9% 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 UNDERGROUND
 
 R2-290 
 5,111 
 63.3 
 3,236 
 15.4% 
 14.6% 
 21.0% 
 17.8% 
 
 R2-470 
 4,744 
 84.7 
 4,017 
 14.3% 
 18.1% 
 19.5% 
 22.1% 
 
 R2-590 
 4,750 
 89.9 
 4,270 
 14.3% 
 19.3% 
 19.5% 
 23.5% 
 
 R2-710 
 5,073 
 81.4 
 4,132 
 15.2% 
 18.7% 
 20.8% 
 22.7% 
 
 R2 Subtotal 
 19,679 
 79.6 
 15,655 
 59.1% 
 70.7% 
 80.8% 
 86.1% 
 
 R3 Subtotal 
 1,223 
 70.2 
 858 
 3.7% 
 3.9% 
 5.0% 
 4.7% 
 
 R4 Subtotal 
 3,458 
 48.3 
 1,671 
 10.4% 
 7.5% 
 14.2% 
 9.2% 
 
 TOTAL UG 
 24,360 
 74.6 
 18,184 
 73.2% 
 82.1% 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 STOCKPILE 
 153 
 73.5 
 113 
 
 
 
 
 
 TOTAL OP, UG & Stockpile 
 33,424 
 66.5 
 22,255 
 100% 
 100% 
 
 
Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves have an effective date of
 December 31, 2015.
 
 (2) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves are reported on a 100%
 basis.
 
 (3) 
 
 The reference point for the definition of Probable
 Mineral Reserves is at the point of delivery to the process
 plant.
 
 (4) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves are reported at +1.0 mm
 (effective cut-off of 1.0 mm).
 
 (5) 
 
 Probable Mineral Reserves that will be or are mined using
 open pit methods include Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 65. Probable
 Mineral Reserves are estimated using the following assumptions: Renard 2
 and Renard 3 open pit designs assuming external dilution of 4.3% and
 mining recovery of 98%; Renard 65 open pit design assuming external
 dilution of 3.5% and mining recovery of 98%.
 
 (6) 
 
 Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 Probable Mineral Reserves
 are mined using underground mining methods. The Renard 2 Probable Mineral
 Reserve estimate assumed an external dilution of 20% and mining recovery
 of 82%. The Renard 3 Probable Mineral Reserve estimate assumed an external
 dilution of 14% and mining recovery of 85%. The Renard 4 Probable Mineral
 Reserve estimate assumed an external dilution of 14% and mining recovery
 of 78%.
 
 (7) 
 
 Tonnes are reported as thousand metric tonnes, diamond
 grades as carats per hundred tonnes, and contained diamond carats as
 thousands of contained carats.
 
 (8) 
 
 Tables may not sum as totals have been rounded in
 accordance with reporting guidelines.
123 

Factors that may affect the Probable Mineral Reserve estimates
include: 

 
 
 • 
 New data from ongoing and upcoming sampling
 programs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Updates to assumptions used in estimating diamond carat
 content, including bulk density, pipe geometry and dimension, and grade
 interpolation method; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Geological interpretation of internal
 kimberlite units and/or domain boundaries; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Changes to mine design and/or planning
 parameters; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Unforeseen mine geotechnical and/or
 hydrological conditions; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Depletion due to mining or sampling; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Further improvement, or deterioration, of
 process plant recovery; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 External influences on operating and sustaining capital
 costs, including without being limited to, energy costs and escalation;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Diamond price and valuation assumptions; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Foreign exchange rates, especially Canadian
 dollars versus United States dollars; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Variations to the permitting, operating or social licence
 regime assumptions, in particular if permitting parameters are modified by
 regulatory authorities during permit renewals. 
Mining Operations 
The mining strategy for the Renard Diamond Mine is to extract
the near surface portions of the kimberlite orebodies by open pit mining methods
and to recover the extensions at depth using the underground BHS method. The
selection of this underground mining method is the result of a trade-off study
that was conducted to determine the best method for the project. The fact that
the orebody can be mined by underground mining methods affects the optimum open
pit size and is a trade-off of profit from mining by open pit versus underground
mining techniques. 
Open Pit Design 
Open pit optimization was carried out using the Whittle
software package implementing the Lerch-Grossman algorithm. The Whittle
optimizations were performed using the 2015 Mineral Resource Update. The Renard
Technical Report considers mineralization classified in the Indicated Resource
category, which limits open pit mining to the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 65
kimberlite ore bodies. 
A mining dilution factor was estimated for each pipe by
including a 1 m envelope around the ore. The resulting dilution factor, which
was employed in the optimization process, was used to calculate the diluted
grade. For optimizations, an ore recovery of 96% was used for Renard 2 and
Renard 3 and 100% for R65, while for Probable Mineral Reserves estimates, a
uniform 98% was used for the open pits. Several optimization iterations and
cases were performed for the R2/R3 open pit imposing certain surface and pit
depth constraints. The selected R2/R3 pit shell is not limited by surface
constraints, but is limited to elevation 380 in the pit where the current
underground mine is designed to recover the ore body. The R65 pit is constrained
at surface due to the road and lake bounding the pit on the south side and does
not consider that the ore body will be mined by underground methods. Bench
heights of 10 m were selected to facilitate efficient drilling and blasting
activities. The loading units will mine the benches in 10-m-high cuts. The pit
slope profile was determined using geotechnical recommendations from Golder and
Itasca Consulting Canada Inc. The modelled overburden thickness varies from 5 m
at the edges to > 27 m over the center of the orebodies. The slope
configuration recommendations vary based on overburden thickness. The Renard 2
and Renard 3 open pit excavations result in a single pit at surface with two pit
bottoms centered on the respective orebodies. The excavation is therefore
treated as a single pit and is referred to as the R2/R3 open pit. The R2/R3 open
pit is too small to allow for internal pit phases. The Renard 65 pit is centered on one main kimberlite and will be mined in three
phases to maximize value and sequence waste mining. 
124 

Underground Mine Development 
Access to the mine will be provided by a ramp to exploit the
Probable Mineral Reserves that have been defined down to a depth of 710 m for
the Renard 2 pipe, 250 m for the Renard 3 pipe and 270 m for the Renard 4 pipe.
The underground mine has been planned so that a single common ramp will provide
access to all three Renard pipes. The ramp has been sized to allow efficient ore
extraction with an underground mobile equipment fleet, such as 60t haul trucks
and 20t LHDs. It will be driven from surface to the 710L and will connect to all
six drill levels and four production levels. Since only a ramp and a supported
raise with a manway have access through to surface, all workers, equipment and
materials will be transported in and out of the underground mine via the ramp
facility. To facilitate smooth traffic in the ramp during the ore haul, passing
bays were incorporated into the ramp design to allow loaded ore trucks to travel
the ramp with minimal interruptions. The Renard 3 and Renard 4 pipes will be
accessed either from the main ramp or from existing levels initially developed
to access Renard 2. 
During the life-of-mine, a total of 37.0 km of development will
be excavated of which 4.0 km will be in initial or pre-production capital with
the remainder in operating and sustaining capital. This development will produce
0.6 Mt of kimberlite ore and 2.0 Mt of waste. Ramp development was initiated in
December 2014 with an initial 8 m cut, and then recommenced in April 2015. As of
December 31, 2015, 887 m of development had been completed. The main ramp will
remain the highest priority task until 290L is reached, as it is part of the
critical path to start the underground operation. The planned rates per
development team are 5.2 m/d for the ramp; 5.5 m/d for a single face in standard
size tunnels, and 6.5 m/d if there are multiple faces available in standard size
tunnels. Except for the first 8 m, which were performed by a contractor, all
lateral development will be done by Stornoway-employed crews with newly
purchased equipment. 
The main exhaust raise will be a vertical and supported 5.0 m
in diameter raise, extending from surface to 710L. It will be excavated in four
sections: surface to 290L; 290L to 470L; 470L to 590L; and 590L to 710L. The
main fresh air raise will be a vertical 6.5 -m diameter supported raise, also
extending from surface to 710L. It will be excavated in five sections: surface
to 160L; 160L to 290L; 290L to 470L; 470L to 590L and 590L to 710L. The fresh
air raise will also serve as the secondary egress from the mine in the event of
emergency where the primary egress through the ramp is unavailable. Mine
services such as electrical cables, fuel line, mine water, dewatering,
compressed air and communications will be provided through the raise as well.

Underground Mining 
At the outset of the mine design contemplated in the report
titled “The Renard Diamond Project, Québec, Canada, Feasibility Study, NI 43-101
Technical Report” dated December 29, 2011, a trade-off study was conducted to
select the preferred underground mining method or methods to be used to extract
the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 pipes. In the study, potential mining
methods were identified, evaluated and compared considering safety, dilution and
recovery, production capacity, schedule, economics, risks and opportunities. As
part of this study, a rock mechanics evaluation was conducted by Itasca
Consulting Canada Inc., which determined that the Renard 2 and Renard 4 pipes
were unlikely to support natural progressive caving, since the “caving” region
is reached only for the lowest rock properties and largest hydraulic radius. As
a result, block caving was eliminated as a potential mining method. Four
underground mining methods were shortlisted and evaluated, including BHS,
sublevel retreat, long hole panel mining with backfill, and blasthole shrinkage
with pillars. Based on this study, the BHS mining method was selected to mine
the underground portions of the Renard 2, Renard 3 and Renard 4 kimberlite
pipes. 
The BHS method consists of drilling and blasting the ore with
long large-diameter blastholes, and extracting the ore at the base of the stopes
from drawpoints. During the blasting phase, ore is left in the stope to support
the walls until the complete stope has been blasted. Since ore expands when
blasted due to the voids in the broken rock, it is necessary to draw out this
swell on an ongoing basis, approximately 35% of the total in situ ore. Thus,
with this method, there is a continual supply of ore production throughout the
blasting period, and once the blasting is complete, the
remaining broken ore can be drawn from the stope - generally at a very high rate
with few restrictions. 
125 

The expected advantages of BHS are: 

 
 
 • 
 High production capacity capable of producing
 6,000 tonnes per day; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Minimizes overall development requirements with
 large sublevel spacing (60 m); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Blasted ore left in the stope (shrinkage) provides
 support to stope walls until the blasted ore is drawn down; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Modern large equipment (20t LHD's and in-the- hole drills
 with 60+ m blasthole lengths) can be used, resulting in high equipment
 productivity; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Initial production from the stopes can begin
 before completion of the R2/R3 OP; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Over half of the blasted ore can be recovered with low
 dilution before higher dilution in the final drawdown phase begins.
 
The BHS method has been designed to progress in four stages
from the top of the pipe (bottom of the open pit) downwards. As the ore is drawn
from the stope, a large open void will be created if no backfill is used. The
mine plan is to fill this void using open pit waste as backfill placed into the
stope by dumping it from trucks on surface onto the top of the broken ore column
being drawn down in the pipe. For Renard 2 and Renard 3, waste will be dumped
over the edge of the pit, while for Renard 4, wastes will be dumped into
backfill raises leading to the top of the underground stope. This use of open
pit wastes will also enable the rehabilitation of the waste rock pile during
mine operation rather than at the end of the mine life. 
A 3D view of the planned development and stopes is shown in
Figure 1.14. 
Figure 1.14: 3D View of the Renard Mine 

 
126 

For production mining, the Renard 2 pipe has been divided
vertically into four production stages (zones), each located at elevations where
the ore body changes geometry and orientation, so that recovery and dilution
factors could be optimized. The resulting production levels with this design are
at level 290L, 470L, 590L and 710L (all level designations are depth below
surface in metres). Their respective heights are 165 m (up to the pit bottom),
180 m and 120 m for the last two stages. Drawpoints and cones will be located at
the base of each of the stages. A top-down mining sequence is planned for the
four mining zones in Renard 2. 
The base of the Indicated Resource in the Renard 4 pipe is 235
m below surface (270 m from FAR collar) and will be mined below a 100-m-thick
crown pillar for a vertical height of 135 m. The interpretation of the shape of
the Renard 4 pipe is oblong, and very regular in its outline, so this height was
deemed to be suitable for BHS mining. One production level and two drill levels
will be used to extract all reserves from the Renard 4 orebody, which will also
be subdivided into vertical panels as Renard 2. The bottom production level for
Renard 4 pipe is at the 270L. 
The Renard 3 pipe is fairly large close to surface, but then
necks down to a fairly small pipe below the open pit and further necks down at
the base of the Indicated Mineral Resources at a depth of 250 m. Due to the very
irregular shape of the orebody, the Renard 3 pipe was divided in two stopes. The
stope on the West side of the pipe will first be mined bottom up by BHS as its
grade and size are more important. This opens the opportunity to recover most of
the carats in R3 without adding fill before the stope is depleted. Once the
first stope is filled with waste, the stope on the East side of the pipe (stope
2) will be mined using standard long hole stoping, as it is too narrow to
accommodate drawcones. The bottom of the only production level for the Renard 3
pipe is at 250L, and the mining of two stopes will extend up to the bottom of
the pit. 
Mineral Processing and Diamond Recovery 
The process flow sheet was developed by Stornoway based on the
following key aspects: 

 
 
 • 
 
 The material characteristics observed, and data obtained,
 from the treatment of underground samples from Renard 2, Renard 3 and
 Renard 4 in Stornoway's Lagopede bulk sample plant; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Specific unit operation test work; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Conventional diamond processing techniques as
 successfully employed in the diamond industry; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Liberation effectiveness with focus on diamond
 breakage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Circuit simplicity; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Cost effectiveness. 
To optimize footprint and capital costs, the diamond process
plant design has a single process line for comminution and ore preparation.
Capacity considerations dictate that two (2) DMS circuits for concentration and
four (4) lines for fines dewatering are required. All process equipment
including storage bins and materials handling equipment is housed within a
heated building, heated transfer towers or heated conveyor galleries. 
The process plant design capacity is 2.16 Million tonnes per
annum (dry solids basis). The plant overall utilization is estimated to be 78%,
equivalent to an operating time of 6,833 hours per year or 315 tonnes per hour
and 6,000 tonnes per day. Stornoway expects to increase the plant throughput to
323 tonnes per hour, already within initial plant equipment capacity, and
increase the plant availability to 83.5% by optimizing plant maintenance
sequences. Taking the aforementioned into consideration, by July 2018, Stornoway
expects the plant will operate at a throughput of 7,000 tonnes per day at an
overall plant utilization of 83.5% . Once the plant achieves sustainable
nameplate throughput, further optimization work will be conducted focusing on
liberation, diamond breakage and increasing the overall plant utilization. The
ore processing system will liberate, concentrate and recover diamonds from 45 mm
to 1 mm. 
127 

Liberation design will use stage crushing where each crusher
will operate with a large crushing gap to protect against potential diamond
breakage. ROM material will be crushed, washed and sized at various stages to
produce -45 mm ore, before all liberated diamonds are recovered within either a
DMS or LDR concentration process. All rejected material larger than 6 mm from
these processes is re-crushed within a HPGR crusher to maximize the liberation
of trapped diamonds. The HPGR product is then returned to the scrubber circuit
to wash and de-agglomeratethe HPGR product. The HPGR promotes interparticle
crushing used for tertiary crushing and is the principal diamond liberator
generating a product size of 60% smaller than 6 mm. The majority of the unwanted
fines (-1 mm) are separated from the ore in these circuits and then pumped to
the thickening circuit for dewatering. 
A surge bin with a capacity of 240 tonnes decouples the DMS
from the ore preparation circuit. The process plant will produce a DMS and LDR
concentrate which will be treated in a secure diamond recovery facility that
uses diamond differentiation techniques based on magnetic, X-ray, laser Raman
and ultra-violet technologies with hand sorting as final de-falsing step to
produce a nominally 98% diamond product. 
Final diamond recovery is achieved by hand sorting diamonds
from waste in a secure glove box, located within the sorthouse in the recovery
plant. The diamonds will be chemically cleaned before preliminary valuation and
export. The diamond plant is expected to have a diamond recovery efficiency of
not less than 97% by mass and 99% by value of liberated diamonds. 
Security is a key element of the process plant design given the
high value and volume of the final diamond product. A security management system
to detect, deter and reduce the possibility of diamond theft in conjunction with
an automated diamond recovery process is part of the design. 
The following facilities are included in the plant design: 

 
 
 • 
 Main plant office, control room and electrical
 rooms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Recovery plant office, control room and storage
 room 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Security offices, access control and search
 rooms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Metallurgical laboratory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Air compressor area 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Mid-size maintenance workshop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Diamond cleaning facility 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Diamond stock room 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Diamond valuation room 
128 

Table 1.14: Main Plant 3D Modal 

 
Project Infrastructure 
On Site Ground Infrastructure 
Water distribution system: a raw water intake has been
installed in Lake Lagopede and a pumping station was installed on the shore at
hundred metres from the lake. It is located near the accommodation camp and a
few hundred metres from the main process area. The same pumping station also
supplies the potable water treatment plant. 
Wastewater treatment plant: a wastewater treatment plant
equipped with a membrane bioreactor (MBR) treatment system has been constructed.

Potable water treatment plant. the potable water
treatment plant is installed in a container located within the emergency
vehicles garage. It houses the water treatment equipment, pumps and a small
office. 
Trench landfill: a trench landfill system with a volume
of 40,000 m³ is in operation for domestic solid waste management. 
Power plant: a power plan (comprised of seven natural
gas generators of 2050 KW each and three diesel-powered generators of 1800 KW
each) was constructed on the Renard Diamond Mine site to provide power
requirements of the mine. 
Fuel and LNG storage and regasification plant: a tank
farm was constructed to store arctic grade diesel and unleaded gasoline in
double-walled fuel tanks. An LNG storage and regasification plant was also
constructed. This facility consists of a truck offloading station, six storage
tanks and a regasification station with its ancillary. 
Explosive storage and handling area: the explosive
storage and handling area consists of storage containers for emulsion, one
detonator magazine, one packaged explosive magazine and a garage / wash bay
building. 
129 

Service Buildings: the service buildings of the Renard
Diamond Mine are all operational and include an accommodation complex, a camp
reception complex, dormitories, emergency vehicle garage and potable water
treatment plant, a service building, a leisure building, a heavy vehicle truck
shop, light vehicle garage, workshop and warehouse, an office building. 
Telecommunication System: a single satellite dish
antenna, modems and related equipment have been installed at the mine site for
recreational use (mainly TV signal to the rooms). Voice, video conferencing and
data transmission are assured to the Renard mining site via a multi-megabit
Microwave link going through seven repeater towers. The above Microwave link
originates at the office building where MPLS connectivity to all other Stornoway
locations is provided. The airport communication systems are serviced from the
mine site by way of another multi-megabit Microwave link. This provides
surveillance of the remote airport site while it is unmanned. IP Telephone
service with QoS (Quality of Service) is installed at all site locations where
warranted for operation and/or emergency communication needs. The industrial
areas of the site (mill, power plant, garages etc.) are linked via fiber optic
cables and equipped with more robust telephone sets and cabling, where
warranted. VLANs with Firewall rules are used in order to keep recreational,
corporate, production, CCTV and other types of content isolated from each other.

On Site Underground Infrastructure 
Electrical power: electrical power will be provided
throughout the mine for drills, jumbos, fans, pumps, lighting and other
miscellaneous loads. The power will be distributed to the mine at 4.16 kV
through three primary feeders, two located in the fresh air raise (3C 250 MCM)
and the third in the ramp. All three feeders will be supplied from the power
station electrical room. A substation located on surface will be fed from the
power house electrical room containing BUS A and B and having 2000 amp capacity.
From there, power will be distributed to the mine surface facilities, including
the main intake fans. 
Ventilation system: the mine will have one main fresh
air intake, which will be a 6.5 -m diameter supported raise with services and
manway (secondary egress). Fresh air will be distributed on most levels directly
from the fresh air raise. Drill levels which are not connected to the fresh air
raise will be supplied via smaller vent raises connected to other levels with
fresh air. Air distribution within the mine will be controlled by a combination
of ventilation doors (SAS), regulators, plastic flaps and secondary fans
installed in walls. This will allow large flow coverage of the levels with the
use of auxiliary fans only locally (e.g., drill drifts). As the ramp is the
primary egress, the secondary egress from the mine will be provided via a
ladderway installed in the fresh air raise. The mine fresh air intake will be
downcast so in the case of a fire, it will always be in fresh air and provide a
safe escape route. In the rare case of a fire in or near the raise, personnel
will report to the nearest refuge station. 
Water pipelines: process water is required underground
for drilling, dust suppression, and wash-down of equipment and rock faces for
geology and mining. Process water will be supplied from the project process
water distribution system on surface, and will be fed underground through 151 mm
(6") pipelines in the fresh air raise and 102 mm (4") in the ramp. Provisions
are made for water recirculation to reduce water consumption and water
treatment. Potable water for underground use will be provided using a 51 mm (2")
line in the fresh air raise. 
Dewatering system: a four-stage dewatering system is
planned for the underground mine. Main sumps and pumping stations will be
located on 290L, 470L, 590L and 710L, with water pumped from the lower pump
station being rehandled at the upper station. It is anticipated that
approximately 30% of the mine water inflows will be intercepted and contained at
290L, 470L and 590L as mining progresses deeper. Consequently, the 710L lower
pumping station has been designed for 1960 m3/day (360 USgpm) while the 290L,
470L and 590L upper stations will be capable of pumping the full predicted flow
of 2,725 m3/day (500 USgpm). All pump stations will have two pump arrangements
installed, one operational and the second on standby for maintenance. A gravity
drainage system will be established whereby drainage holes will be drilled to
connect the levels and channel mine water down to the sump on the nearest level.

Communication system: the communication system for the
underground operation will be installed in most tunnels and uses coaxial cable
with modems, antennas and amplifiers. The system will be capable of transmitting data and voice, as well as high speed internet,
telephone and equipment/personnel tracking. In addition, conventional telephone
service will be provided to the refuge stations, maintenance facilities and
fueling stations. 
130 

Explosive storage area: explosive storage areas include
three excavations: the explosive truck parking, the explosive magazine and the
detonator magazine. Three explosive storage areas are planned to provide
explosives underground, all located near the Renard 2 production horizons. The
main magazines will be located off the ramp close to surface, the second set at
the entrance of the 390 drill level, and the third one at the same location on
the 620 drill level. The explosive magazines have been designed to store 40
containers for a total capacity of 60,000 kg of emulsion and some packaged
explosives. 
Underground fuel bays: in addition to a surface fuelling
 facility, a fuelling system to deliver fuel underground through a pipeline will
 be installed. Underground fuel bays will be constructed on all main production
 levels: 290L, 470L, 590L and 710L. Each fuel bay will be equipped with a
 20,000-litre receiving tank and dispensing equipment. The transfer of fuel
 underground will be done through a 25-mm diameter piping system on a batch
basis, and will be fully instrumented to ensure safe operation. 
Refuge Stations: a total of 14 refuge stations will be
located at various strategic locations throughout the mine according to Québec's
regulations (15 min walk or 1000 m). 
Offsite Infrastructure 
Renard Airport: the airstrip for the Renard
Diamond Mine is owned and operated by Stornoway with chartered aircrafts for
its exclusive needs. The reference aircraft for the design of the runway is the
DASH 8, Series 300 with a capacity of 50 passengers. The airport terminal is a
two storey building, erected on site from an engineered wood structure. It
includes an office for the airport operator, toilets and a general waiting area.
A service shed, also built from an engineered wood structure, houses the
generators and de-icing equipment. Jet fuel and diesel are stored in
double-walled tanks. 
Road Access: land access to the Renard Diamond Mine is
provided by the extension of provincial highway Route 167 (built by the
Ministère des Transport du Québec) and the Renard mining road (built by
Stornoway). This road infrastructure affords year-round access linking the
project to the municipalities of Mistissini and Chibougamau. The Route 167
Extension was constructed to MTQ standards and is a two- lane gravel-topped road
with two-lane bridges and a design speed limit of 70 km/h, while the mining road
is a two-lane gravel topped Class III road with one-lane bridges and a design
speed limit of 50 km/h. 
Processed Kimberlite Containment Facility 
The PKC facility is the long-term storage facility for the PK
generated during operations. The facility has a total footprint area of about 72
hectares (ha) and is planned to store 44.8 megatonnes (Mt) of PK (23 Mm3 of PK)
representing the total Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources of the Renard
Diamond Mine for a long term life of mine that could reach 19 years. 
The site, located in the Canadian subarctic, is permafrost-free
and of low seismicity. The PKC facility is located on top of a watershed, which
generally drains towards the processing plant located to the southwest, thus
facilitating water management. Geotechnical testing carried out to date
classifies the PK as well-graded sand with some gravel to gravelly sand with
some low plastic or non-plastic fines. Of concern is the potential plasticity of
the PK; therefore the PKC facility was designed based on the potential undrained
behaviour of the PK. Geochemical testing carried out to date showed that the PK
and waste rock release low concentration of dissolved constituents; therefore,
the PK and mine waste rock are classified as low risk materials. Furthermore,
the waste rock is considered to be Category I and is suitable for use as a
construction material without restriction. Geotechnical and geochemical testing
of the PK will be performed throughout the development of the PKC facility. 
131 

The design objective of the PKC facility is that it receives
all materials generated by the processing plant at all times such that neither
mining nor processing operations are adversely affected. The design, including
development and operating plans, has been developed in consideration of the
expected variability of the PK and in consideration of the facility having a
high consequence of failure as per the 2013 Dam Safety Guidelines published by
the Canadian Dam Safety Guidelines. The PK will be dewatered at the processing
plant and trucked to the PKC facility. The facility will be developed throughout
operations as a stacked facility with an external slope configuration of 3H: 1V.
Placement of the erosion protection layer on the exterior of the PKC facility
will occur during operations, thereby progressively closing the facility during
its development. No water will be allowed to pond within the PKC facility. 
The PKC facility includes material placement zones (nominally
compacted zone, engineered filled zone, and PK waste zone), a starter berm, a
containment berm, an access ramp to allow haulage of PK, as well as a water
management system, including internal drainage elements (rockfill blanket and
foundation rock drains), a slope drainage channel for the access ramp, and a
series of ditches and sumps around the perimeter of the facility. The engineered
fill zone corresponds to the outer shell of the PKC facility and provides
sufficient material strength to ensure stability of the facility. This zone will
be constructed on a prepared foundation and placed as an engineered fill. The
nominally compacted fill zone corresponds to the internal portion of the PKC
facility. This zone is built with PK material and provides PK storage capacity
into which the material will be deposited with nominal compaction control
measures. During processing plant commissioning and early operations, the PK is
expected to have higher water content than for the duration of operations. The
PK waste zone contains PK with excessively high water contents requiring the
construction of the containment berm to separate the PK waste from both the
engineered and nominally compacted fill zones. A rockfill embankment, namely the
starter berm, will be constructed prior to the deposition of PK to allow for the
deposition of PK with high water content. The starter berm will be placed on the
interior limit of the engineered fill zone. 
The PK is expected to be variable over the life of mine; this
will affect its geotechnical behaviour. The key parameter for the development of
the PKC facility is the water content of the PK. The PK hauled and placed in the
PKC facility is expected to be several percentage points above the geotechnical
optimum water content. Mechanical reworking of the PK to dry it to enable the
required compaction within the engineered fill zone is expected to be required.
The facility development and PK management plans are developed with this in
mind. 
PK is an erodible material. Therefore, the crest of the
facility will be sloped and crowned to promote drainage of surface water and
precipitation towards water collection systems. The placement of the erosion
protection layer on the external slopes will be concurrent with PKC facility
development. This is consistent with the progressive closure concept aimed to
provide environmental, financial and operational benefits for the mine. For
facility closure, the PKC facility pile will be contoured and surfaced to mimic
the surrounding landforms. 
The conditions in the foundation and deposited PK will be
monitored during the development of the PKC facility and into the closure
period. The geotechnical instrumentation program includes the installation and
the monitoring of piezometers (measurement of phreatic surface and porewater
pressures within the PK), thermistors (temperature measurement within the PK),
and survey monuments (displacement measurement of the PK). 
Operating Costs and Sustaining Capital Costs 
Annual OPEX are defined as costs incurred once Renard
Commencement of Commercial Production has been achieved. 
The annual operating costs are subdivided into open pit
operations, underground mine operations; process plant and auxiliaries; and
general administrative and infrastructure. 
The open pit operations cost estimate is based on the updated
open pit mine design and production schedule, and assumes standard open pit mine
operating procedures. Kimberlite ore will be delivered initially to the ore stockpile or, once process plant
operations start, to the surface primary crusher upstream of the process plant.
132 

The underground mine operations cost estimate is based on the
updated underground mine design and production schedule and estimated from first
principles. Ore from the underground mine will be transported to the surface
using truck hauling via ramp. 
The process plant and auxiliaries cost estimate is based on the
 quantity of kimberlite ore feed to the process plant. For the purpose of the
 estimate, a process plant capacity of 78% plant utilization at a nameplate
 capacity of 2.16 Million tonnes per annum was assumed. The operating costs were
 estimated using standard manufacturer's cost data for power, fuel, equipment,
consumables and hourly maintenance costs. 
The general, administrative and infrastructure cost estimates
were derived from budgetary quotes and project actuals established in the first
year of mine operations. Labour costs are based on a salary scale and
organizational chart developed by Stornoway. 
A summary of the estimated OPEX, on a life of mine basis, for
each of the four categories described above is shown in Tables 1.16 and 1.17.

Table 1.16: Summary of Estimated Total Life of Mine OPEX

 
 Description 
 Open
 Pit 
 Underground 
 Process
 plant 
 G&A
 and Infrastructure 
 
 
 Labour 
 64,751 
 263,780 
 188,863 
 236,559 
 
 Fuel 
 20,868 
 57,599 
 20,744 
 29,967 
 
 Explosives & supplies 
 8,038 
 21,368 
 - 
 - 
 
 Consum. & reagents 
 - 
 - 
 44,418 
 - 
 
 Equipment 
 26,099 
 143,175 
 - 
 - 
 
 Power 
 1,982 
 59,238 
 195,393 
 62,137 
 
 Maintenance 
 - 
 - 
 89,438 
 24,537 
 
 Heating 
 - 
 - 
 11,980 
 - 
 
 Accommodation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 128,048 
 
 Transportation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 54,961 
 
 Other 
 4,655 
 72,744 
 34,927 
 180,891 
 
 Totals 
 126,396 
 617,904 
 585,763 
 717,100 

 
 (1) 
 
 All figures in 2016 dollars. Totals may not add due to
 rounding.
Total life of mine OPEX is estimated at $1,878,431,631,
excluding $168,728,602 of costs incurred prior to the attainment of Renard
Commencement of Commercial Production and characterized as capitalized operating
costs within the CAPEX estimate. 
Table 1.17: Summary of Estimated OPEX Life of Mine Unit Cost
per Tonne Ore Processed ($) 

 
 Description 
 Open
 Pit 
 Underground 
 Process
 plant 
 G&A
 and Infrastructure 
 
 
 Labour 
 1.94 
 7.89 
 5.65 
 7.08 
 
 Fuel 
 0.62 
 1.72 
 0.62 
 0.90 
 
 Explosives & supplies 
 0.24 
 0.64 
 - 
 - 
133 

 
 Description 
 Open
 Pit 
 Underground 
 Process
 plant 
 G&A
 and Infrastructure 
 
 
 Consum. & reagents 
 - 
 - 
 1.33 
 - 
 
 Equipment 
 0.78 
 4.28 
 - 
 - 
 
 Power 
 0.06 
 1.77 
 5.85 
 1.86 
 
 Maintenance 
 - 
 - 
 2.68 
 0.73 
 
 Heating 
 - 
 - 
 0.36 
 - 
 
 Accommodation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.83 
 
 Transportation 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.64 
 
 Other 
 0.14 
 2.18 
 1.04 
 5.41 
 
 Totals 
 3.78 
 18.49 
 17.53 
 21.45 
Total life of mine OPEX unit cost is estimated at $56.20/tonne
processed, excluding $5.05/tonne preproduction costs characterized as
capitalized operating costs within the CAPEX estimate. 
The OPEX estimate was developed for the project with the
following key assumptions: 

 
 
 • 
 
 Power unit cost was based on an estimate of fixed and
 variable costs. Power consumption was based on the average consumption of
 each motor included in the equipment list; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pricing is based on cost of supply, manpower performance
 and compensation actualized to the fourth quarter of 2015; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 No allowance was made for contingency, escalation and
 risk relating to OPEX; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 No allowance was made for final mine closure activities
 within the OPEX estimate, other than the progressive reclamation costs of
 the PKC facility. In the project Economic Analysis, the balance of mine
 closure costs are treated as a capital cost item; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The OPEX estimate was based on from budgetary quotes and
 project actuals established in the first year of mine operations, and
 utlize a Class III estimate methodology as defined by the type and
 quantity of engineering deliverables produced to support the estimate. The
 expected order of accuracy is in the range of -15% to +15%.
 
“Sustaining Capital Costs” are capital and replacement
costs required to sustain operations against mine plan estimates, such as
maintenance of the mobile mining fleet and power plant, or deferred capital
costs occurring after the attainment of commercial production, such as the
development of the underground mine. Sustaining Capital Costs are defined
independently of the CAPEX estimate or OPEX. Annual estimates for the life of
mine are shown in Table 1.18. 
Table 1.18: Estimated Sustaining Capital and Capital
Replacement Costs (in $M) 

 
 Description 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 2030 
 
 Open pit 
 1.8 
 0.5 
 0.7 
 3.2 
 1.5 
 1.5 
 1.3 
 3.0 
 2.7 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 
 Underground 
 43.7 
 45.2 
 27.8 
 18.4 
 11.8 
 31.8 
 5.8 
 18.5 
 13.6 
 5.0 
 0.5 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 0.0 
 
 Process plant 
 0.8 
 1.1 
 1.5 
 1.1 
 1.5 
 1.1 
 1.2 
 1.1 
 1.1 
 1.0 
 0.3 
 1.0 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 
 Adm. & Infra. 
 0.0 
 0.2 
 0.0 
 0.7 
 0.2 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.2 
 1.5 
 0.0 
 0.2 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.8 
 
 Power Plant & Airport 
 3.8 
 1.8 
 2.0 
 0.2 
 0.5 
 1.8 
 0.9 
 0.0 
 1.8 
 0.7 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 0.0 
 
 Totals 
 50.1 
 48.8 
 32.0 
 23.6 
 15.4 
 36.2 
 9.2 
 22.7 
 20.7 
 6.7 
 0.9 
 1.1 
 0.1 
 0.8 
134 

Diamond Market Fundamentals and Diamond Price Estimates

Rough diamonds are a mined product characterised by a high
degree of non-homogeneity in terms of size, colour, quality and shape. Rough
diamonds are not exchange traded and have no terminal market. Rather, they are
sold directly by mine producers to a wide range of clients within an industry
pipeline that funnels their transformation into polished diamond jewellery
through cutting and polishing, polished diamond wholesaling, diamond jewellery
manufacturing, and end-product distribution to the retail markets of the
world. 
Most mine producers will undertake the sorting of their rough
diamond production into parcels of like characteristics so as to maximise their
attractiveness and value prior to sale. Sales mechanisms include contracted
sales with a regular list of qualified rough market buyers, tenders and
auctions, offtakes with retail end-users, and downstream beneficiation
partnerships designed to capture value-add. Sales are typically transacted on a
cash basis in United States dollars. 
Diamond pricing is set by a mine producer based on a regularly
adjusted price book, or set on the basis of an achieved price achieved in a
tender or auction sale. No benchmark price list for rough prices exist, although
several rough market agencies, such as RoughPrices.com, publish a rough price
index based on proprietary transactional data and public data compiled from the
international Kimberley Process and producer country customs agencies. 
In most diamond supply and demand forecasts, future rough
diamond supply is assessed on the basis of current and future production plans
at the major producing mines. These supply projections are generally robust, as
most of the world's major diamond mines are operating on a steady-state basis or
transitioning to lower production rates as they age, and it typically takes
between 8 and 12 years to find and develop a new diamond mine. 
Bain and Company forecast a potential maximum of 20 million
carats of new diamond production between 2013 and 2019 on the basis that all
currently known sources of rough supply are brought to the market. This yields a
forecast compounded annual growth rate of 4.5% to 5.5% in carat terms. 
Diamond demand forecasting (expressed as either demand for
rough diamonds in the cutting centres or demand for polished diamonds for
diamond jewelry manufacture) is a more complex calculation based on, amongst
other things: 

 
 
 • 
 long-term gross domestic product (GDP) growth
 forecasts in the main consumer markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 diamond jewelry consumer growth trends in
 developing markets; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 short-term inventory draw-down or re-stocking
 trends within the diamond pipeline, often linked to levels of bank debt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The impact of diamond recycling or synthetic diamond
 substitution on polished diamond demand. 
The principal difference between published diamond demand
forecasts is whether they are based solely on the first of these elements and
assume steady state diamond demand linked to gross domestic product (GDP) growth
or whether they also take into account the second and third of these elements,
and allow for market changes outside of gross domestic product (GDP) growth and
short- term inventory factors. 
2015 was a year of volatility in the world diamond markets
which saw price declines for both rough and polished diamonds in the face of
moderate sales growth for diamond jewellery in the United States market, flat or
negative growth in China, and low profitability for those in the transformative,
middle part of the diamond pipeline (Bain and Company, Antwerp World Diamond
Centre, 2015. The Global Diamond Industry 2015 - Growth perspectives amid
short-term challenges). High stocking levels of polished diamonds along with
high debt levels in the cutting centers created the impression of a short term
over-supply of rough diamonds and low sell-through of polished diamond
jewellery. 
135 

On a longer term basis, Bain and Company forecast a global
compounded annual growth rate in rough diamond demand of 3% to 4% to 2030, with
a period of supply balance between 2015 and 2019 as the new projects come into
production. The differential between a long term positive demand outlook and
negative supply outlook prompts the common adoption in the diamond mining
industry of a real terms price escalation factor on rough diamond prices for the
forward planning and valuation purposes, with real terms escalators of between
1% and 4% common. Stornoway has typically chosen to represent forward diamond
prices based on a combination of "spot" diamond market pricing and a forward
escalation factor of 2.5% compounded annual growth rate in the base case,
applied for a period of 10 years, with sensitivities of 0% and 5%. 
Between May 9, 2011 and May 13, 2011, the Valuation Samples
were valued in Antwerp, Belgium under the supervision of WWW IDC. WWW IDC also
valued diamond parcels from the Lynx and Hibou kimberlite dykes. WWW IDC is an
internationally recognized independent diamond valuation and advisory service to
diamond mining and exploration companies. In Canada, WWW IDC, through Diamonds
International Canada (DICAN) Ltd., serves as the valuator for the Government of
the Northwest Territories and the Government of Ontario. 
In addition to performing its own valuation, WWW IDC showed the
Renard 2, 3 and 4 diamond samples to four other experienced rough diamond
companies in order to obtain additional market based valuations (an “open
market” valuation). In each case WWW IDC's own valuation was higher than the
average of the five independent valuations and the average was used by WWW IDC
to construct a diamond price model, with “High” and “Minimum” sensitivities
based on alternate interpretations of diamond quality and potential value.
Diamond price models represent the true diamond price that might reasonably be
expected for a kimberlite ore body based on standard commercial-scale recoveries
of all diamond size classes. They differ from the achieved diamond valuation
price principally through a correction which is applied for the absence of large
diamonds which are typically under-represented in exploration scale samples. The
choice of “Minimum” and "High" to describe the sensitivity limits is deliberate:
in WWW IDC’s view it is highly unlikely that an actual diamond price achieved
for each kimberlite ore body upon production would fall below the “Minimum”
sensitivity, but it is possible that the actual diamond price achieved may be
higher than the “High” sensitivity, which is not a maximum price. 
At the time of the May 2011 open market valuation, WWW IDC
recommended the adoption of a single diamond price model for the Renard 2 and
Renard 3 valuation samples given the similarity of the diamonds in terms of
diamond qualities and size distribution. 
A separate diamond price model was adopted for the Renard 4
Valuation Sample given its apparently finer distribution of diamond sizes and
marginally different diamond quality characteristics. However, independent
studies on diamond breakage and plant performance during the processing of the
Renard bulk samples have indicated that the size distribution of the Renard 4
sample was most likely been modified during its recovery. For this reason, an
alternate diamond price model for the Renard 4 sample has been adopted for
planning purposes since the May 2011 valuation exercise which assumes a diamond
size distribution equal to the average Renard 2-Renard 3 size distribution. 
The collection of a bulk sample of diamonds from the Renard 65
kimberlite in 2013 revealed a diamond population with a markedly different
assortment of diamond qualities compared to any of the other kimberlite pipes.
Accordingly, individual price models have been adopted for each kimberlite pipe
at the Renard Diamond Mine since this time on the basis that the small
differences in diamond quality and size distribution that can be observed
between the pipes should be treated as real. Updated diamond valuation exercises
were conducted on this basis by WWW IDC in March 2013 and March 2014. For the
Renard 2, 3 and 4 valuation samples, the result of each WWW IDC re-valuation was
used to adjust the average valuations obtained in the May 2011 exercise from the
five independent valuators, and a revised diamond price model with High and
Minimum sensitivities generated. The Lynx and Hibou samples were not re-valued
in 2013 and 2014 and the proposed mine plan for Renard presently does not
include these kimberlite bodies. At the time of the most recent WWW IDC
re-valuation in March 2014, base case diamond price models of US$197/carat were
calculated for Renard 2, US$157/carat for Renard 3, US$155/carat for Renard 4
and US$187/carat for Renard 65. For further information, please see “Update on
Renard”. 
136 

A tracking of world average rough diamond prices by
RoughPrices.com, based on a market assortment maintained by WWW IDC, indicates a
-19% drop in average diamond pricing between March 2014 and March 2016.
Stornoway has applied this market adjustment to the March 2014 WWW IDC diamond
price models to arrive at an estimate of "Spot" diamond pricing for each Renard
kimberlite pipe for use in the Renard Diamond Mine's economic analysis and the
declaration of the project's Mineral Reserves of the Renard Technical Report.

Economic Analysis and Sensitivities 
Stornoway completed a financial analysis for the Renard Diamond
Mine, reflected in the Renard Technical Report. The project economic analysis
incorporates the estimated life of mine diamond production profile based on the
updated Probable Mineral Reserves, diamond valuation and escalation estimates,
CAPEX, OPEX, Sustaining Capital Costs, salvage value, working capital, closure
and reclamation costs, taxation, costs under the Mecheshoo Agreement, royalties,
the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds, and the
project's financial parameter assumptions. 
The significant financial assumptions affecting the financial
analysis of the project include: 
Process plant throughput: for the purpose of the
economic analysis, by mid-2018, Stornoway has assumed a plant capacity of 2.5
Million tonnes per annum. See “Renard Diamond Mine - Mineral Processing and
Diamond Recovery”. 
Diamond selling prices: “spot” diamond valuation
estimates used for revenue forecasting are based on a 19% estimated market
adjustment to the March 2014 valuation of the Renard 2, 3, 4 and 65 valuation
samples by WWW IDC. 
Diamond escalation rate: diamond prices have been
assumed to increase by 2.5% per annum in real terms (with sensitivities ranging
from 0% to 5% in real terms), from January 1, 2016 until the end of 2028. 
Exchange rate: the C$/US$ exchange rate is used to
convert revenue from diamond sales into Canadian dollars and to calculate a
delivered certain fuel price to site. The base case exchange rate assumption for
financial modelling is 1.35 C$/US$ flat. All operating cost estimates are in
Canadian dollars. 
Energy: the delivered diesel price used in the model is
$1/litre, and the delivered LNG price is $0.63/m³ which includes transportation
costs to site, federal excise tax and provincial fuel tax. Power generation is
via a combination of LNG and diesel power plant located on site. The cost of
generating power is therefore dependent on mix between LNG and diesel and the
fuel price assumption for both. The average mix of LNG and diesel used to
generate power over the life of mine is approximately 88% and 12% respectively.
The total energy cost (power and fuels) represents 24.5% of total life of mine
OPEX. 
Real dollar terms: project cash flows have been
calculated in real dollar terms (constant dollar terms). Where nominal cash
flows have been calculated for comparable purposes, a general inflation factor
of 2% per year has been applied to operating costs, revenues, deferred and
sustaining capital expenditures, as well as closure costs and salvage values.
The general inflation factor used is consistent with the monetary policy adopted
by the Bank of Canada and the federal government at keeping total CPI inflation
at 2% with a control range of 1% to 3% around the target (Bank of Canada
Monetary Policy Report, July 2011). 
Project Financing: on July 8, 2014 Stornoway completed a
series of financing transactions, consisting of the issuance of common shares
and warrants, convertible debentures, a diamond streaming agreement, a senior
loan agreement, cost over-run facilities and an equipment finance facility.
Proceeds from the financing transactions have been used and are being used for
the construction of the Renard Diamond Mine, and for working capital during the
construction period, including interest and financing expenses. It is
anticipated that proceeds from the financing transactions mentioned above will
be sufficient to meet Stornoway's capital requirements to the Renard
Commencement of Commercial Production at the project. Net present valuations are
presented net of all royalties, costs incurred under the Mecheshoo Agreement,
the effective revenue impairment associated with the Renard
Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of Diamonds, and are presented on an
unlevered basis. 
137 

Life of mine gross revenue from diamond sales is estimated at
$5,565 million in real dollar terms. Life of mine OPEX is estimated at $1,878
million in real terms to process 33.4 Mt of ore and produce 22.3 million diamond
carats. The average life of mine operating cost is $56.20/t (US$41.63/t) of ore
or $84.37/carat (US$62.50/ct) produced with the average annual profile
presented. 
An unlevered after-Tax NPV (7%) is estimated at $974 million,
 and $1,349 million on a pre-tax basis, in real dollar terms. Given the advanced
 nature of project construction, estimates of internal rate of return and payback
period are not considered meaningful. 
Table 1.19: Project
Valuation(1)(2)(3) 

 
 
 Pre-Tax 
 After-Tax 
 
 NPV5% 
 $1,558 
 $1,113 
 
 NPV7% (Base Case) 
 $1,349 
 $974 
 
 NPV8% 
 $1,258 
 $913 
Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 All quoted figures in the project economic analysis are
 quoted in Canadian $ terms unless stated otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 Dollar amounts in $ million.
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 
 For the purposes of the Renard Technical Report financial
 model, net present valuations are presented net of all royalties, costs
 incurred under the Mecheshoo Agreement, the effective revenue impairment
 associated with the Renard Streaming Agreement for the Forward Sale of
 Diamonds, and are presented on an unlevered basis.
The project is most sensitive to estimated revenue parameters
(diamond price, exchange rate and grade) and least sensitive to estimated
operating cost metrics. The Project also shows strong sensitivity to future
diamond price growth. Stornoway's utilization of a 2.5% real terms growth factor
is consistent with well constrained rough diamond supply and demand forecasts
and industry best-practice. 
Conclusions and Recommendations 
All elements of the project development plan, including the
remaining required infrastructure, mine design, process plant design, waste
disposal infrastructure and cost estimation, represent the current estimate for
life of mine operations. The resulting information therefore met all of the
applicable requirements for conversion of Indicated Mineral Resources to a
Probable Mineral Reserve estimate. The Probable Mineral Reserve estimate was
determined in accordance with CIM Definition Standards classification.
Considering the risks inherent in all kimberlite deposits, such as sampling for
geological continuity, diamond grade and diamond revenue determination, the
Indicated portion of the Mineral Resources is considered suitable for the
estimate of Probable Reserve. The authors of the report recommend to perform
additional work in order to reduce the uncertainties in the geomechanical and
design analysis and to continually review these analysis to ensure they remain
valid over time. They also recommend to test processed kimberlite material post
production to confirm geochemical classification in support of the processed
kimberlite facility design. There is no certainty that the Renard Technical
Report will be realized. 
Update on Renard 
On March 26, 2017, Stornoway reported financial and operating
results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2017. Earnings,
operating expenses and capital expenses quoted reflect the recent adoption of a
change in accounting policy regarding the capitalization of certain underground
mine development costs (see “Change in Accounting Policy” below). 
138 

Year ended December 31, 2017 Highlights (all
quoted figures in C$, unless otherwise noted) 

 
 
 • 
 For the year ended December 31, 2017, Stornoway
 reported net loss of $114.6 million ($0.14 per share on a basic and fully
 diluted basis), compared to net income of $19.6 million in 2016 ($0.03 per
 share basic and fully diluted). Included in 2017 earnings is a non- cash
 impairment charge of $171.0 million, reflecting a lower diamond price
 environment than was originally forecast by Stornoway. Net income before
 impairment5 was $11.1 million for the fourth quarter
 and $15.0 million for the year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 During 2017, the Renard Diamond Mine attained
 commercial production, completed the processing ramp-up on schedule and
 accomplished two full quarters at or above plant nameplate operating
 capacity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Mining in the Renard 2-3 and Renard 65 open
 pits in the fourth quarter comprised 827,181 tonnes, with 442,476 tonnes
 of ore extracted. For the full year, open pit mining stood at 4,475,854
 tonnes (102% of plan), with 2,091,782 tonnes of ore extracted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 A total of 398,267 carats were recovered in the
 fourth quarter from the processing of 518,817 tonnes of ore at a grade of
 77 cpht. For the full year, a total of 1,642,934 carats were recovered
 from 1,956,436 tonnes of ore at 84 cpht (98%, 97% and 99% of plan
 respectively). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Diamond sales of 486,633 carats6
 were completed in the fourth quarter with gross
 proceeds5,7 of $52.6 million at an average price of
 US$86 per carat ($108 per carat 8). For the full year,
 Stornoway sold 1,701,561 carats for gross proceeds5,7 of $186.2
 million at an average price of US$85 per carat ($109 per carat
 9). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 In the fourth quarter, cash operating costs per
 tonne processed 5, 10 were $42.10 per tonne ($54.85
 per carat) and capital expenditures5,10 were $47.7 million. For
 the full year, cash operating costs per tonne processed5,10
 were $45.02 per tonne ($53.60 per carat) and capital
 expenditures5,10 were $126.9 million. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 In the fourth quarter, Stornoway reported
 adjusted EBITDA5,10 of $25.2 million, or 45.5% of revenues, and
 $85.0 million, or 43.3% of revenues, for the full year ended December 31,
 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 At year end, cash, cash equivalents and
 short-term investments stood at $81.0 million and available
 liquidity5 to Stornoway, including available credit facilities,
 stood at $101.8 million. 
________________________________
5 See “Non IFRS Financial Measures” section. 
6 Including 32,989 carats that were sold in the
third quarter for which revenue was realized in the fourth quarter. 
7 Before stream and royalty. 
8 Based on an average $:US$ conversion rate of
$1.26. 
9 Based on an average $:US$ conversion rate of
$1.29. 
10 See “Change in Accounting Policy” section. 
139 

Table 1. Financial Results Highlights 

 
 (expressed in millions of Canadian dollars, except as
 otherwise noted) 
 
 
 
 
 Three months ended 
 
 
 Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2017 
 
 
 December 31, 2017 
 
 
 Ore mined (tonnes)
 
 
 490,237 
 
 
 2,218,385 
 
 
 Waste mined (tonnes) 
 
 444,058 
 
 
 2,704,560 
 
 
 Ore processed
 (tonnes) 
 
 518,816 
 
 
 1,956,435 
 
 
 Carats Recovered 
 
 398,267 
 
 
 1,642,934 
 
 
 Carats
 Sold6 
 
 486,633 
 
 
 1,701,561 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 55.5 
 
 
 196.5 
 
 
 Cost of Goods Sold
 
 
 43.2 
 
 
 149.2 
 
 
 Impairment charge 
 
 171.0 
 
 
 171.0 
 
 
 Selling, General,
 Administrative and Exploration 
 
 4.6 
 
 
 19.9 
 
 
 Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial and other
 (income) expenses 
 
 3.1 
 
 
 7.6 
 
 
 Foreign exchange (gain) loss 
 
 0.7 
 
 
 (7.9
 ) 
 
 Net (loss) income
 
 
 (118.6
 )

 
 (114.6
 )
 
 
 Net (loss) income per Share – Basic
 and Diluted 
 
 (0.14
 ) 
 
 (0.14
 ) 
 
 Net income before
 impairment1 
 
 11.1 
 
 
 15.0 
 
 
 Adjusted EBITDA5 
 
 25.2 
 
 
 85.0 
 
 
 Adjusted EBITDA
 margin (%)5 
 
 45% 
 
 
 43% 
 
 
 Capital expenditures5 
 
 47.6 
 
 
 126.9 
 
Financial Summary 
Revenue for the fourth quarter is estimated at $55.5 million,
and at $196.5 million for the full year FY2017. Revenue includes amortization of
upfront proceeds received by Stornoway under the Renard Stream Agreement for
Forward Sale of Diamonds in consideration for future commitments to deliver
diamonds at contracted prices. 
Under the changed accounting policy, Stornoway reported FY2017
Adjusted EBITDA5,10 of $85.0 million, or 43.3% of revenue. Stornoway
incurred a non-cash impairment charge of $171.0 million as at December 31, 2017
on the carrying value of Stornoway’s property plant and equipment, reflecting an
outlook of lower than expected diamond pricing. Prior to this charge, Stornoway
reported net income before impairment5 for FY2017 of $15.0 million.

During the fourth quarter Stornoway drew down funds available
under its senior loan facility with Diaquem Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Ressources Québec) prior to its scheduled expiry at year-end, and made $16.0
million of principal repayments on existing indebtedness. As at December 31,
2017, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments stood at $81.0 million
and Available Liquidity5 to Stornoway, including available credit
facilities, stood at $101.8 million. 
Change in Accounting Policy 
The fourth quarter and full year FY2017 results incorporate the
impact of an accounting policy change recently adopted by Stornoway in
accordance with IAS 8 “Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates
and errors” wherein certain costs associated with the development of the
underground mine that were previously expensed will now be capitalized and
amortized over- the period during which the underground infrastructure can be
expected to contribute to the revenue earning capability of the mine. Mining
companies use different accounting treatments on development expenditure
incurred during the production phase. This change will result in the financial
statements providing reliable and more relevant information on Stornoway’s
financial performance, such as operating expense, capital expense, and earnings.

140 

Table 2 illustrates a reconciliation certain financial and
operating metrics impacted by the accounting policy change for the three 2017
interim consolidated financial statements of Stornoway. 
Table 2. Reconciliation of Key Financial and Operating
Metrics Pursuant to Accounting Policy Change 

 
 (expressed in millions
 of Canadian dollars, except as otherwise noted) 
 
 Three months ended 
 Year ended 
 
 March 31, 2017
 June 30,
 2017 
 September
 30, 2017
 December 31, 
 December 31,

 
 
 
 
 2017 
 2017 
 
 Before 
 Impact
 
 After 
 Before 
 Impact
 
 After 
 Before 
 Impact
 
 After 
 After Change
 
 After Change
 
 
 Change 
 Change 
 Change
 Change 
 Change
 Change 
 
 Cost of Goods Sold ($m) 
 
 36.4 
 -2.8 
 33.6 
 33.9 
 -1.6 
 32.3 
 49.2 
 -9.1 
 40.1 
 43.3 
 149.2 
 
 Cash Operating Cost per Tonne
 Processed ($/t)5 
 
 57.86 
 -5.19 
 52.67 
 54.12 
 -9.43 
 44.69 
 57.97 
 -15.98
 
 41.99 
 42.10 
 45.02 
 
 Cash Operating Cost per Carat
 Recovered ($/ct)5 
 
 62.98 
 -5.65 
 57.33 
 66.39 
 -11.56 
 54.83 
 66.39 
 -18.30 
 48.09 
 54.85 
 53.60 
 
 Capital Expenditures ($m)5
 
 
 17.1 
 +2.2 
 19.3 
 24.0 
 +4.8 
 28.8 
 22.7 
 +8.5 
 31.2 
 47.6 
 126.9 
 
 Adjusted EBITDA ($m)5
 
 
 19.7 
 +1.6 
 21.3 
 15.1 
 +1.7 
 16.8 
 15.0 
 +6.7 
 21.7 
 25.2 
 85.0 
 
 Adjusted EBITDA Margin5
 
 
 40.6% 
 +3.3% 
 43.9% 
 35.6% 
 +3.9% 
 39.5% 
 30.0% 
 +13.4% 
 +43.4% 
 45.4% 
43.3% 
Operational Summary 
Environment, Health, Safety and Communities 
No lost time incidents were recorded during the quarter, for a
year to date lost time incidents rate of 0.4 for contractors and zero for
Stornoway employees. Average daily manpower at site in December averaged 324
workers (Stornoway and contractors) of which 12% were Crees of the Eeyou
Istchee. Stornoway employees stood at 505 as at December 31, 2017, including 437
mine located employees, of which 12% were Crees, 26% were from Chibougamau and
Chapais, and 62% were from outside the region. One incident of administrative
environmental non - -conformity was identified during the quarter due to
reporting an accidental glycol spill outside -of the 24 hour prescribed
delay. 
Commercial Production, Ramp Up and Completion Certification

Stornoway formally declared commercial production at the Renard
Diamond Mine on January 1, 2017, marking the end of the project’s initial
capital expense period. Production ramp-up was completed on schedule at the end
of the second quarter of 2017, with an average processing rate of 6,149 tonnes
per day achieved in June 2017. Since then, two full operating quarters have been
completed at average processing rates of 5,957 tonnes per day and 6,014 tonnes
per day respectively. 
Subsequent to the year end, on February 7, 2018, Stornoway
announced the attainment of full completion certification at the Renard Diamond
Mine pursuant to the terms of Stornoway’s July 2014 material project finance
agreements. 
141 

Mining and Processing 
During the fourth quarter, 827,181 tonnes were mined from the
Renard 2- 3 and Renard 65 open pits, with 442,476 tonnes of ore extracted.
518,817 tonnes of ore from the Renard 2 and Renard 3 kimberlites were processed
with a diamond recovery of 398,267 carats at an attributable grade of 77 cpht.

During the year, 4,475,854 tonnes were mined from the Renard
2-3 and Renard 65 open pits, compared to a plan of 4,369,532 tonnes (102%), with
2,091,782 tonnes of ore extracted. 1,956,436 tonnes of ore were processed with a
diamond recovery of 1,642,934 carats at an attributable grade of 84cpht,
compared to a plan of 1,999,000 tonnes and 1,694,312 carats at 85 cpht (98%, 97%
and 99% respectively). 
Carat production was lower than planned in the fourth quarter
and on a full year basis, due to the unscheduled batch processing of lower grade
Renard 65 ore in November for the purpose of obtaining a valuation sample of
Renard 65 diamonds. 
In the fourth quarter, cash operating costs per tonne
processed5,10 were $42.10 per tonne ($54.85 per carat
recovered1,6). On a full year basis, cash operating costs per tonne
processed5,10 were $45.02 per tonne ($53.60 per carat
recovered5,10). Under the changed accounting policy, cash operating
costs are lower and capital expenditures are higher than was contemplated in the
2017 guidance. 
Diamond Sales 
During the fourth quarter, Stornoway sold a total of
486,6336 carats in 2 tender sales with gross proceeds5,7
of $52.6 million, at an average price of US$86 per carat ($108 per
carat8). On a full year basis Stornoway sold 1,701,561 carats for
gross proceeds5,7 of $186.2 million, at an average price of US$85 per
carat ($109 per carat9). 
Commentary on Diamond Production and the Rough Diamond
Market 
During 2017, the quality and size distribution of diamond
recoveries at Renard were negatively impacted by high levels of diamond damage
incurred during processing, producing a commensurate reduction in the average
price achieved at sale. Stornoway believes that significant value improvement
may be achieved upon successful mitigation of the breakage to more acceptable
levels. The source of the breakage has been localized, primarily, within the
secondary cone crusher and tertiary high pressure grinding roll crusher, and
appears associated with the high proportion of hard, internal dilution inherent
in Renard ore producing an abrasive environment within the crushers. Stornoway
believes that the introduction of ore-waste sorting, approved under an
extraordinary capital plan by the board of directors in August 2017, will
contribute to a higher quality diamond product through the removal of a large
proportion of the abrasive dilution from the crushing circuits. Commissioning of
the new ore- waste sorting circuit is expected to commence shortly. 
Between the
first sale of Renard diamonds in November 2016, and the tenth sale in December
2017, the average run of mine pricing for Renard diamonds, after accounting for
size distribution and quality variations, increased in real terms by 13.5% .
This increasing trend reflected a positive reaction by the rough market to the
qualities, colours and polished yields of the Renard diamond production, and
increasing participation in Stornoway’s diamond tenders. This result was
attained despite a challenging rough diamond market in 2017, which was
characterized by an increase in sales from rough producers (including from three
new diamond mining projects) and flat to low sales growth for polished diamonds
and diamond jewellery. These market conditions were exacerbated by the Indian
demonetization events of late 2016, which impacted rough diamond pricing for
smaller and lower quality items during the course of 2017. By year end, the
effect of the Indian demonetization event had largely been removed from the
rough diamond market, and a strong holiday selling season, particularly in Asian
markets, had resulted in moderate price growth at the start of 2018 for both
rough and polished diamonds. 
Subsequent to the year end, Stornoway announced on January 29,
2018 that in the first tender of 2018 it had sold 138,687 carats were sold for
gross proceeds5,8 of US$14.4 million at an average price of US$104
per carat. This is the highest price for Renard diamonds
achieved to date, and reflected the strengthening diamond market and appreciable
improvements in breakage levels, size distribution and quality mix. 
142 

Capital Projects 
Under the changed accounting policy, capital
 expenditures5,10 in the fourth quarter were $47.7 million, primarily
 related to the development of the underground mine and the construction of the
 ore-waste sorting circuit. For the year ended December 31, 2017, capital
 expenditures5,10 stood at $126.9 million. Under the changed
 accounting policy, cash operating costs are lower and capital expenditures are
higher than was contemplated in the 2017 guidance. 
Development of the underground mine during the fourth quarter
focussed on lateral- development in kimberlite and waste for the drill drift on
levels 160, 240 and 270, and also for the draw points on level 290. Development
of the fresh air raise was also completed during this period. Lateral
development comprised 1,227 meters compared to a plan of 1,062 meters (+16%). On
a yearly basis, lateral development stood at 4,869 meters compared to a plan of
4,460 meters (+9%). 
The first production blast in the underground mine occurred
successfully on December 20, 2017. Full production from the underground mine is
on schedule to commence within the second quarter of 2018. 
Updated FY2018 Guidance 
Under the changed accounting policy, cash operating
costs5 in FY2018 are expected to be $48 to $50 per tonne processed
($75 to $77 per carat recovered), and capital expenditures5 are
expected to be $100 million. This compares to previous FY2018 guidance of $56 to
$58 per tonne processed ($87 to $92 per-carat recovered) and $82 million of
capital expenditures5. Other FY2018 guidance (Table 3) is un impacted
by the accounting changes. 
Table 3. Updated FY2018 Guidance 

 
 
 (expressed in millions of Canadian
 dollars, except as otherwise noted) 
 
 
 
 
 
 MINING AND
 PROCESSING 
 
 
 
 
 
 Open Pit Tonnes Mined 
 
 2.7 million 
 
 
 
 Underground Tonnes
 Mined 
 
 2.2
 million 
 
 
 
 Tonnes Processed 
 
 2.5 million 
 
 
 
 Carats Recovered 
 
 1.6
 million 
 
 
 
 Grade (cpht) 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 Cash Operating Cost per
 Tonne Processed 
 
 $48-50 
 
 
 
 Cash Operating Cost per Carat Recovered
 
 
 $75-77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SELLING AND MARKETING 
 
 
 
 
 
 Carats Sold (+7 DTC)

 
 1.1
 million 
 
 
 
 Carats Sold (-7 DTC) 
 
 0.5 million 
 
 
 
 Average Diamond Pricing
 (+7 DTC) 
 
 US$
 125-165 
 
 
 
 Average Diamond Pricing (-7 DTC) 
 
 US$ 15-19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CAPITAL 
 
 
 
 
 
 Capital Expenditures

 
 $100
 million 
 
Mineral Reserves Update 
Mineral Reserves as of December 31, 2017 have been updated
based on mining depletion. At December 31, 2016, Proven and Probable Mineral
Reserves for the Renard Diamond Mine were 30.2 million tonnes at a grade of 66.3
cpht for 20.0 million attributable carats. 
Exclusive of the Mineral Reserves, the Renard Diamond Mine
includes additional Indicated Mineral Resources of 2.8 million carats (6.1
million tonnes at 46 cpht), Inferred Mineral Resources of 13.1 million carats
(23.4 million tonnes at 56 cpht), and 33.0 to 71.1 million carats of
non-resource exploration upside (76.2 to 113.2 million tonnes at grades ranging
from 20 to 168 cpht). Readers are cautioned that the potential quantity and grade of any such exploration target is
conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient exploration to define a
mineral resource, and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the
target being delineated as a mineral resource. All kimberlites remain open at
depth. The 2017 updated Mineral Resource incorporates geological data on
kimberlite contacts and internal geology as revealed on the 160 meter, 270 meter
and 290 meter levels in the Renard underground mine.
143 

Non IFRS Financial Measures 
Stornoway refers to certain financial measures, such as Net
 Income Before Impairment, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Average
 Diamond Pricing Achieved, Cash Operating Cost per Tonne Processed, Cash
 Operating Cost per Carat Recovered, Capital Expenditures, and Available
 Liquidity, which are not measures recognized under IFRS and do not have a
 standardized meaning prescribed by IFRS. As a result, these measures may not be
comparable to similar measures reported by other corporations. 
Each of these measures have been derived from Stornoway’s
financial statements and have been defined and calculated based on management’s
reasonable judgement. These measures are used by management and by investors to
assist in assessing Stornoway’s performance. The measures are intended to
provide additional information to the user and should not be considered in
isolation or as a substitute for measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
144 

SCHEDULE E - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE BRUCEJACK
MINE 
Most Recent Technical Report 
The most recent technical report filed by Pretium Resources in
accordance with NI 43-101 is entitled “Feasibility Study and Technical Report
Update on Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC” with an effective date of June 19,
2014 (the “Brucejack Report&rdquo;). Reference should be made to the
full text of the Brucejack Report. The Brucejack Report is not and shall not be
deemed to be incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form.
Information Contained in this Section 
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from (a) the Brucejack Report; (b) Pretium Resources’ most recent
annual information forms as of the date hereof; and (c) various news releases
publicly filed by Pretium Resources, and which may all be consulted under
Pretium Resources’ issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 
The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein. 
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosure in this section
relating to operations on the Brucejack Mine is based on information publicly
disclosed by Pretium Resources and information/data available in the public
domain as at March 28, 2018 (except where stated otherwise), and none of this
information has been independently verified by Osisko. Osisko considers that
Pretium Resources has publicly disclosed all scientific and technical
information that is material to Osisko.
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited access to properties included in its asset portfolio. Additionally,
Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which it is not
permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the operators of the
properties and their qualified persons to provide information to Osisko or on
publicly available information to prepare required disclosure pertaining to
properties and operations on the properties on which Osisko holds interests and
generally has limited or no ability to independently verify such information.
Although Osisko does not have any knowledge that such information may not be
accurate, there can be no assurance that such third party information is
complete or accurate. Some information publicly reported by operators may relate
to a larger property than the area covered by Osisko’s interest. Osisko’s
interests often cover less than 100%, and sometimes only a portion of, the
publicly reported Mineral Reserves, Mineral Resources and production of the
property. Osisko shall not be held liable for any eventual misrepresentations
in any scientific or technical information excerpted from any technical
information publicly filed by Pretium Resources. 
 Project Description and Location 
The Brucejack Gold Mine (in this section also referred to as
the “Brucejack Project”, the “Property” or the “Brucejack
Property”) in the Brucejack Report consists of four mining leases and six
mineral claims totalling 3,304 hectares. The mining leases require annual
payments to remain in good standing and the mineral claims are in good standing
until January 31, 2027. 
The Brucejack Project is centred at approximately latitude
56°28'20"N by longitude 130°11'31"W, approximately 950 kilometres northwest of
Vancouver, 65 kilometres north- northwest of Stewart, and 21 kilometres
south-southeast of the Eskay Creek Mine. 
Pretium Resources acquired a 100% outright interest in the
Brucejack Project in December 2010, pursuant to an acquisition agreement dated
October 28, 2010 with Silver Standard. The Brucejack Project is subject to a
1.2% net smelter returns royalty in favour of Franco-Nevada on production in
excess of 503,386 ounces of gold and 17,907,080 ounces of silver. Also, on
September 15, 2015: (i) Pretium Exploration, Pretium Resources, 0890696 B.C. Ltd., Orion Stream II and BTO entered
into the Brucejack Offtake Agreement, and (ii) Orion Stream II and BTO, as
purchasers, Pretium Resources and Pretium Exploration, as sellers, Orion Stream
II, as purchaser's agent and Orion Co-Investments II (ED) Limited, as collateral
agent, entered into the Brucejack Stream Agreement, governing the purchase of
the Refined Precious Metals. 
145 

Property Location Map 

 
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and
Physiography 
Accessibility 
The Brucejack Project is located in the Boundary Range of the
Coast Mountain Physiographic Belt along the western margin of the Intermontane
Tectonic Belt. The terrain is generally steep with local reliefs of 1000 metres
from valleys occupied by receding glaciers, to ridges at elevations of 1200
metres above sealevel. Elevations within the Brucejack Project area range from
1366 metres along Brucejack Lake to 1650 metres at the Bridge Zone. However,
within several areas, the relief is relatively low to moderate. 
Pretium Resources has completed construction of its
approximately 74 kilometre exploration access road that links the Brucejack Camp
to Highway 37 via the Knipple Glacier, Bowser Camp and Wildfire Camp. Personnel,
equipment, fuel and camp provisions are driven to a staging area on the Knipple
Glacier before being taken over the glacier to the Brucejack Camp. The area is
easily accessible by helicopter from the town of Stewart, or seasonally from the
settlement of Bell II. The flight time from Stewart is approximately 30 minutes
and slightly less from Bell II. 
Climate 
The climate is typical of north-western British Columbia with
cool, wet summers, and relatively moderate but wet winters. Annual temperatures
range from +20°C to -20°C. Precipitation is high with heavy snowfall accumulations ranging from 10 metres to 15 metres at higher
elevations and 2 metres to 3 metres along the lower river valleys. Snow packs
cover the higher elevations from October to May. The optimum field season is
from late June to mid-October. 
146 

Local Resources and Infrastructure 
There are no local resources other than abundant water for any
drilling work. 
The nearest infrastructure is the town of Stewart,
approximately 65 kilometres to the south, which has limited supplies and
personnel. The towns of Terrace and Smithers are also located in the same
general region as the Brucejack Project. Both are directly accessible by daily
air service from Vancouver. 
The nearest railway is the Canadian National Railway Yellowhead
route, which is located approximately 220 kilometres to the southeast. This line
runs east-west and terminates at the deep water port of Prince Rupert on the
west coast of British Columbia. The most northerly ice-free shipping port in
North America, in Stewart, is accessible to store and ship concentrates. 
History and Exploration 
The exploration history of the area dates back to the 1880s
when placer gold was located at Sulphurets and Mitchell Creeks. Placer mining
was intermittently undertaken throughout the early 1900s and remained the main
focus of prospecting until the mid-1930s. 
In 1935, prospectors discovered copper-molybdenum
mineralization on the Sulphurets property in the vicinity of the Main Copper
zone, approximately six kilometres northwest of Brucejack Lake; however, these
claims were not staked until 1960. From 1935 to 1959, the area was relatively
inactive with respect to prospecting; however, it was intermittently evaluated
by a number of different parties and several small copper and gold-silver
occurrences were discovered in the Sulphurets-Mitchell Creek area. In 1960,
Granduc and Alaskan prospectors staked the main claim group covering the known
copper and gold-silver occurrences, which collectively became known as the
Sulphurets property, starting the era of modern exploration. Various operators
explored the area, and an underground program was completed on the West Zone
between 1986 and 1991 by the Newcana Joint Venture among Granduc, Newhawk and
Lacana Mining Corporation. 
In 1999, Silver Standard acquired Newhawk and with it,
Newhawk's 60% interest and control of the Brucejack Project. In 2001, Silver
Standard acquired Black Hawk's 40% direct interest in the Brucejack Project,
resulting in 100% interest in the Brucejack Project. 
Silver Standard began initial work on the Brucejack Project in
2009 with drilling, rock-chip and channel sampling and re-sampling of historical
drill core. The 2009 program tested five zones with 37 drillholes totalling
18,000 metres. A total of 12 drillholes were targeted at what would become the
Valley of the Kings Zone (the “Valley of the Kings”). 
In 2010, Silver Standard’s drill program was designed to
continue definition of the bulk tonnage mineralization as well as to determine
the nature and continuity of the high-grade mineralization observed at Valley of
the Kings. Approximately one third of the 2010 drilling targeted the Valley of
the Kings and included gold intersections of up to 5,840 g/t gold. The bulk
tonnage drilling achieved its intended goal through the definition of more than
20 Moz at Brucejack (8 Moz in Measured and Indicated and 12.5 Moz gold in
Inferred, at a 0.3 g/t AuEq cut-off; Ghaffari et al. 2011). The relatively dense
drilling from the bulk tonnage drilling program, with drill spacings of 100
metres by 100 metres to 50 metres by 50 metres, formed the basis upon which the
bulk tonnage resource model was built. Numerous high-grade intersections were
defined as part of this drilling, allowing for the initial delineation of high-
grade mineralization trends. In 2010, Silver Standard proceeded with the sale of
the Brucejack projects to Pretium Resources. 
The 2011 diamond drill program was focused specifically on
defining high grade resources. In 2011, 178 drillholes were completed totalling
72,805 metres in drillholes SU-110 to SU-288. This included 97 drillholes (41,219 metres) that targeted the Valley of the Kings, 16
drillholes (7,471 metres) that targeted the West Zone, and 21 drillholes (7,220
metres) that targeted the surrounding areas. The remaining drilling was focused
on expansion of Shore Zone, testing for structurally controlled high grade
mineralization in Galena Hill (now part of the Valley of the Kings) and Bridge
Zones, as well as testing new target areas. The West Zone ramp was partially
dewatered in late 2011 and early 2012. A geotechnical mapping program and
updated survey was completed on the dewatered portion of the mine. 
147 

The 2012 diamond drill program focused on defining the high
grade resource for the Valley of the Kings, specifically targeting geological
and structural features believed to be associated with high grade gold
mineralization. Diamond drilling also focused on expanding the known extents of
the Valley of the Kings Zone, both west of the Brucejack Fault and along trend
to the east of the main mineralized zone. A total of 301 drillholes were
completed, totalling 105,500 metres of drilling during the 2012 drilling
program. 
An underground exploration program commenced in 2012 which was
 designed to, amongst other things, access the Valley of the Kings deposit
 underground, excavate a 10,000 tonne underground bulk sample and demonstrate
 continuity of the high-grade gold mineralization. The initial phase of the
 underground program involved widening a portion of the historical West Zone
 underground workings to five metres by five metres so that the historical West
 Zone portal and underground workings can be used for access to the Valley of the
 Kings with production sized mining equipment. In late December 2012, the
 widening of the historical West Zone underground workings was completed and
 excavation commenced of the access ramp from the West Zone workings to the
Valley of the Kings. 
The 2013 surface diamond drill program focused on further
defining the high grade resource for the Valley of the Kings as well as the
geological and structural features believed to be associated with gold
mineralization. A total of 24 surface diamond drillholes (5,200 metres) of the
37 surface drillholes (5,770 metres; drillholes SU-590 to SU-626) completed
during the 2013 drilling program were focussed on the Valley of the Kings. 
In 2013, Pretium Resources also excavated a bulk sample from
within the Valley of the Kings to further evaluate the geological interpretation
and Mineral Resource estimate. The location of the proposed bulk sample was
selected to be representative of the grade and character of the overall
mineralization of the Valley of the Kings. 
Underground development reached the bulk sample area in May
2013 and underground drilling to support the bulk sample program began in
mid-May. A total of 409 drillholes (38,840 metres) were completed with 200 of
these drillholes (16,640 metres) testing the bulk sample area. The remainder
(209 drillholes totalling 22,200 metres) were testing targets outside of the
bulk sample area. 
The design of the bulk sample was limited by provincial
legislation to a maximum allowable bulk sample size of 10,000 tonnes. The bulk
sample was collected as a series of nominal 100 tonne rounds in underground
development. Pretium Resources elected to process the bulk sample both through a
sample tower on site and at a custom mill (Contact Mill) in Montana, United
States. The results of assaying of the samples from the sample tower provided,
in Snowden’s opinion, an unacceptable degree of variation in the results. 
In 2014, exploration focused on resource definition in the
Valley of the Kings with both surface and underground exploration. 
The 2014 surface drill program consisted of infill drilling,
exploration drilling at depth and condemnation drilling. The infill drill
program, comprising 5,818 metres in three holes including 14 wedge holes, was
successful in confirming the grade and continuity of Indicated and Inferred gold
mineralization in an area defined by the 2013 Mineral Resource estimate block
model. 
The exploration drilling at depth, which consisted of four deep
drill holes comprising 3,507 metres, was successful in confirming the continuity
of gold mineralization in the Valley of the Kings below the area defined by the 2013 Mineral Resource estimate. Condemnation
drilling for mine site infrastructure consisted of 25 drill holes comprising
2,679 metres. 
148 

Underground exploration in the Valley of the Kings has
continued to date with mapping and sampling coinciding with the advance of
ramping and vent raise excavation. 
Geological Setting 
The Brucejack Property is located on the eastern limb of the
broad McTagg anticlinorium, the northern closure of the Stewart-Iskut
culmination. As a result, rocks on the Brucejack Property are tilted, as well as
folded, and generally display a progressive younging towards the east. Volcanic
arc-related rocks of the Triassic Stuhini Group form the core of the
anticlinorium, and are successively replaced outwards by volcanic arc-related
rocks of the Lower Jurassic Hazleton Group and clastic basin-fill sedimentary
rocks of the Middle to Upper Jurassic Bowser Lake Group. 
Geology on the Brucejack Property can generally be
characterized as a northerly-trending, broadly arcuate, concave-westward
structural-stratigraphic belt of variably altered rocks. This belt is bisected
on the western side of the Brucejack Property by a prominent topographic
lineament, the Brucejack Fault. This belt is characterised by a broad band of
variably but generally intensely quartz-sericite-pyrite altered rocks of up to
several hundred metres or more across, and approximately five kilometres in
strike extent. The quartz-sericite-pyrite alteration typically contains between
two and 20% pyrite, and, depending on the alteration intensity, can preclude
protolith recognition. Most of the defined mineral resources on the Brucejack
Property are located within the intensely altered zone. 
Mineralization 
Gold (± silver) mineralization is hosted in predominantly
sub-vertical vein, vein stockwork, and subordinate vein breccia systems of
variable intensity, throughout the alteration band. The stockwork systems
display both parallel and discordant relationships to stratigraphy. The
stockwork systems are relatively continuous along strike (several tens of metres
to several hundreds of metres). 
Several mineralization zones have been explored to varying
degrees, including (from south to north): Bridge Zone, Valley of the Kings Zone,
West Zone, Gossan Hill, Shore Zone, and SG Zone. There are numerous relatively
unexplored mineralization showings within the alteration band across the
Brucejack Property that are between the main mineralization zones, highlighting
the exceptional exploration potential of the Brucejack Property. 
High grade gold mineralization in the Valley of the Kings, the
current focus of the Project, occurs in a series of west-northwest (and
subordinate west-southwest) trending sub-vertical corridors of structurally
reoriented vein stockworks and vein breccias. Stockwork mineralization displays
both discordant and concordant relationships to the volcanic pile stratigraphy.
Gold is typically present as gold-rich electrum within deformed quartz-carbonate
(±adularia?) vein stockworks, veins, and subordinate vein breccias, with grades
ranging up to 41,582 g/t gold and 27,725 g/t silver over 0.5 m. 
Recent underground exploration carried out as a part of the
bulk sample program confirmed the location of corridors of stockwork-style
mineralization and the lithological contacts in this part of the deposit (within
the Valley of the Kings). In addition the work resulted in the recognition of
sub-vertical north-northeasterly trending deformed, curviplanar, and sheared
quartz-carbonate veins containing abundant visible electrum. These structures
are interpreted as structurally-controlled fluid conduits that were active
during development of the porphyry system and associated volcanic pile in the
early Jurassic, and which were reactivated during Cretaceous deformation. 
The Valley of the Kings deposit is currently defined over 1,200
metres in east-west extent, 600 metres in north-south extent, and 650 metres in
depth. The West Zone appears to form the northern limb of an anticline that
links up with the Valley of the Kings in the south, and the southern limb of a
syncline that extends further to the north. This zone, which is currently
defined over 590 metres along its northwest strike, 560 metres across strike, and down to 650 metres in depth, is
open to the northwest, southeast, and at depth to the northeast. 
149 

Mineralized Zones 
The current resources as presented by Pretium Resources in its
 annual information form for the year ended December 31, 2016 are comprised of
 two different zones on the Brucejack Project, being the Valley of the Kings Zone
and the West Zone. 
Valley of the Kings Zone 
Exploration drilling by Silver Standard (2009, 2010) and
Pretium Resources (2011 to present), as well as surface mapping, has been
successful in outlining a series of corridors of high grade mineralization
associated with deformed quartz stockworks and intense quartz-sericite-pyrite
alteration in an east-west trending and east-southeast plunging tight syncline
developed in almost the full sequence of lower Hazelton Group rocks. 
The Valley of the Kings mineralized zone trends approximately
west-northwest to east- southeast. Its orientation mirrors that of Electrum
Ridge, a pronounced topographic feature near the southern margin of the zone,
and drilling to date has extended its strike to over 800 metres. The zone is up
to 150 metres wide and was originally thought to be bound to the west by the
Brucejack Fault. Recent drilling in the current 2012 drill program, together
with the presence of significant intervals of gold mineralization, in the
Waterloo Zone, indicates that the Valley of the Kings continues west across the
fault, thereby making the zone open to the west, as well as to the east and at
depth. 
High-grade gold and silver mineralization within the Valley of
the Kings occurs as electrum, which is generally hosted in deformed
quartz-carbonate and quartz-adularia veins and vein stockworks. While quartz
veining and stockworks are common throughout the zone, the majority of gold
intersections are confined to corridors within a zone 75 metres to 100 metres
wide on the southern limb of the syncline. The orientation of these corridors is
subparallel to the fold axis. Gold to silver ratios within the Valley of the
Kings are typically 2:1 or higher. Variations in this ratio, which could be a
function of thermal gradients developed at the time of mineralization, are
suggested by a visible increase in the proportion of silvery electrum (at the
expense of more gold-coloured electrum) with a concomitant increase in the
proportion of vein- hosted adularia towards the eastern parts of the zone.
Additional precious metals-bearing minerals found in the Valley of the Kings,
typically in trace quantities, include silver sulphides, acanthite, pyrargyrite
and tetrahedrite, and associated with base metal-bearing sulphides include
sphalerite and galena. 
Low grade bulk tonnage mineralization, associated with
disseminated anhedral pyrite, forms a halo within the altered rocks, surrounding
the high grade mineralization corridors. 
West Zone 
The West Zone gold-silver deposit is hosted by a northwesterly
trending band of intensely altered Lower Jurassic latitic to trachyandesitic
volcanic and subordinate sedimentary rocks, as much as 400 metres to 500 metres
thick, which passes between two more competent bodies of hornblende plagioclase
hornblende phyric flows. The stratified rocks dip moderately to steeply to the
northeast and are intensely altered, particularly in the immediate area of the
precious metals mineralization. The West Zone appears to form the northern limb
of an anticline that links up with the Valley of the Kings to the south, and the
southern limb of a syncline that extends further to the north. 
The West Zone deposit itself comprises at least 10 quartz veins
and mineralized quartz stockwork ore shoots, the longest of which has a strike
length of approximately 250 metres and a maximum thickness of about around 6
metres. Most mineralized shoots have vertical extents that are greater than
their strike lengths. Veins and stockworks in this zone display clear evidence
of post-mineral ductile and brittle deformation. The West Zone is open along
strike to the southeast, and at depth to the northeast. 
150 

In terms of hydrothermal alteration, the West Zone is marked by
a central silicified zone that passes outwards to a zone of sericite ± quartz ±
carbonate and then an outer zone of chlorite ± sericite ± carbonate. The
combined thickness of the alteration zones across the central part of the
deposit is between 100 metres and 150 metres. 
Gold in the West Zone occurs principally as electrum in quartz
veins and is associated with, in decreasing order of abundance, pyrite,
sphalerite, chalcopyrite, and galena. Besides being found with gold in electrum,
silver occurs in tetrahedrite, pyrargyrite, polybasite and, rarely, stephanite
and acanthite. Gangue mineralogy of the veins is dominated by quartz, with
accessory adularia, albite, sericite, and minor carbonate and barite. The
increased abundance of silver in the West Zone may suggest that this zone was
formed down temperature gradient from the Valley of the Kings. 
Drilling 
The input data for the West Zone Mineral Resource estimate
consisted of 756 drillholes (63,208 metres) including 439 underground drillholes
(24,688 metres), 269 historical surface drillholes (21,321 metres) and 48
surface drillholes (17,199 metres) completed since 2009. 
The input data for the Valley of the Kings Mineral Resource
estimate comprised 932 drillholes totalling 218,238 metres. The drilling
consisted of: 

 
 
 • 
 9 historic drillholes (579 metres); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 490 surface drillholes drilled between 2009 and
 2012 (173,619 metres); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 24 surface drillholes drilled in 2013 (5,200
 metres); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 409 underground drillholes drilled in 2013
 (38,840 metres). 
Drillhole paths were surveyed at a nominal 50 metre interval
using a Reflex EZ single shot instrument. There was no apparent drilling or
recovery factor that would materially impact the accuracy and reliability of the
drilling results. 
The drill collars were surveyed by McElhanney Surveying from
Terrace, British Columbia. McElhanney Surveying used a total station instrument
and permanent ground control stations for reference and have completed all the
surveying on the project since 2009. All underground drill collars were surveyed
by Procon. 
Historical drill core sizes for surface drillholes were NQ
(47.6 millimetre diameter) and BQ (36.5 millimetre diameter). Core size for
drillholes collared from an underground exploration ramp at West Zone was AQ (27
millimetre diameter). 
Core sizes for the surface collared drillholes are PQ (85
millimetre diameter), HQ (63.5 millimetre diameter) and NQ (47.6 millimetre
diameter). Approximately 50% to 60% of Pretium Resources’ core is HQ size. All
drillcore collected from the underground drilling in 2013 was HQ size. 
Sampling, Analysis, Data Verification and Security 
Split PQ samples weigh approximately 10 kilograms. HQ samples
are around 6 kilograms, and NQ are 3 kilograms to 4 kilograms. These weights
assume a nominal 1.5 metre sample length. In general, the average sample size
submitted to the analytical laboratory, ALS Chemex was 6.5 kilograms.

Samples at ALS Chemex were crushed to 70% passing 2
millimetres, (-10 mesh). Samples were riffle split and 500 g were pulverized to
85% passing 75 μm (-200 mesh). The remaining coarse reject material was returned
to us for storage in the Stewart warehouse. 
151 

Gold was determined using fire assay on a 30 g aliquot with an
atomic absorption finish. In addition, a 33 element package was completed using
a four acid digest and ICP-AES analysis, which included the silver. Density
determinations were done by ALS Chemex using the pycnometer method on pulps from
the drilling program. 
Snowden analysed the QA/QC for the Brucejack Project. The
Brucejack drillhole and QA/QC database is managed by GeoSpark Consulting Inc.,
who also manage the routine analysis of the QA/QC results for Pretium Resources.
GeoSpark Consulting Inc. supplied Snowden with a QA/QC database, in Microsoft
Access format, containing the QA/QC results for all drilling up to December 5,
2013. 
The QA/QC protocols included the use of field duplicates,
standards and blanks. The quality control samples were included at a nominal
rate of one field duplicate, one standard and one blank for every 20 samples.
Check assays, in the form of pulp duplicates, were also completed by a different
laboratory and compared with the primary laboratory. 
Procedures undertaken by Pretium Resources have been under the
supervision and security of Pretium Resources staff, as far as drill core
sampling prior to dispatch. Laboratory sample reduction and analytical
procedures have been conducted by independent accredited companies with
acceptable practices. Pretium Resources ensures quality control is monitored
through the insertion of blanks, certified reference materials and duplicates.

Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing 
Several metallurgical test programs were carried out to
investigate the metallurgical performance of the mineralization. The main test
work was completed from 2009 to early 2014. The samples tested were generated
from various drilling programs, including the samples tested by the bulk sample
processing programs. The metallurgical test programs conducted on the Brucejack
mineralization included head sample characteristics, gravity concentration,
gold/silver bulk flotation, cyanidation, table concentrate melting and the
determination of various process related parameters. The early test work focused
on developing the flowsheet for gravity concentration, bulk flotation, and
flotation concentrate cyanidation. The test work also studied the metallurgical
responses of the samples to the gravity concentration flowsheet for gravity
concentration followed by whole ore leaching. The later test work concentrated
on the gravity-flotation concentration flowsheet. 
In general, the Valley of the Kings Zone and West Zone
mineralization is moderately hard. The mineral samples tested responded well to
the conventional combined gravity and flotation flowsheet. The gold in the
mineralization was amenable to centrifugal gravity concentration. On average, 40
to 50% of the gold in the samples were recovered by the gravity concentration.
The flotation tests results indicated that bulk flotation can effectively
recover the gold remained in the gravity concentration tailings using potassium
amyl xanthate as a collector at the natural pH. Two stages of cleaner flotation
would significantly upgrade rougher flotation concentrate. The gold in the
mineralization showed better metallurgical performance, compared to silver. On
average, approximately 96 to 97% of the gold and 91 to 92% of the silver were
recovered to the gravity concentrate and bulk flotation concentrate at the grind
size of 80% passing approximately 70 to 80 µm. There was a significant variation
in metallurgical performances among the samples tested. This may be a result of
the nugget gold effect. The industrial runs on the 10,000-t bulk sample for the
2013 bulk sample processing program and the 1,200-t high- grade Cleo
mineralization conducted in 2014 showed that the gravity/flotation process
flowsheet as designed for the Brucejack mineralization suited the treatment of
the bulk sample. The results also showed that the gravity/flotation flowsheet
adapted well for the varying mineralization and the wide range feed grades that
were experienced during processing of the bulk sample. 
Cyanide leach tests were also conducted to investigate the gold
and silver extractions from various samples, including head samples, flotation
concentrates, flotation tailings and gravity concentrates. In general, most of
the sample responded reasonably well to direct cyanidation, excluding a few of
samples containing higher contents of graphite (carbon), arsenic, or electrum.
Cyanide leach process was not recommended for the feasibility study. 
152 

The test results suggest that the gold and silver recovery
flowsheet for the mineralization should include gravity concentration, bulk
rougher and scavenger flotation, rougher and scavenger concentrate regrinding,
followed by cleaner flotation. 
Mineral Processing 
The process flowsheet developed for the Brucejack Property
mineralization is a combination of conventional bulk sulphide flotation and
gravity concentration to recover gold and silver. The processing plant will
produce a gold-silver bearing flotation concentrate and gold-silver doré that
will be produced by melting the gravity concentrate produced from the gravity
concentration circuits. Based on the LOM average, the recovery process is
estimated to produce approximately 5,600 kg of gold and 1,900 kg of silver as
doré per year and 44,000 t of gold-silver bearing flotation concentrate per year
from the mill feed, grading 14.1 g/t gold and 57.7 g/t silver. The estimated
gold recoveries to the doré and flotation concentrate are 43.3% and 53.4%,
respectively, totalling 96.7% . The estimated silver recoveries reporting to the
doré and flotation concentrate are 3.5% and 86.5%, respectively, totalling 90.0%
. The LOM average gold and silver contents of the flotation concentrate are
anticipated to be approximately 157 g/t gold and 1,000 g/t silver. The flotation
concentrate will be shipped off site to a smelter for further treatment to
recover the gold and silver. 
The process plant will consist of: 

 
 
 • 
 one stage of crushing (located underground);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 a surge bin with a live capacity of 2,500 ton
 surface; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 a semi-autogeneous grinding (SAG) mill and ball
 mill primary grinding circuit integrated with gravity concentration;

 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 rougher flotation and rougher/scavenger
 flotation followed by rougher flotation concentrate regrinding; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 cleaner flotation processes.

A gravity concentration circuit will also be incorporated in
the bulk concentrate regrinding circuit. The final flotation concentrate will be
dewatered, bagged, and trucked to the transload facility in Terrace, British
Columbia. It is expected that the flotation concentrate will be loaded in bulk
form into rail cars for shipping to a smelter located in eastern Canada. The
gravity concentrate will be refined in the gold room on site to produce
gold-silver doré. 
A portion of the flotation tailings will be used to make paste
for backfilling the excavated stopes in the underground mine, and the balance
will be stored in Brucejack Lake. The water from the thickener overflows will be
recycled as process make-up water. Treated water from the water treatment plant
will be used for mill cooling, gland seal service, reagent preparation, and
make- up water. 
153 

Simplified Process Flowsheet 

 
Mining Method 
The underground mine design is largely unchanged from the
previous feasibility study, supporting the extraction of 2,700 t/d of ore via
transverse LHOS and longitudinal LHOS. Paste backfill and modern trackless
mobile equipment will be used. Mine access will be by a main decline from a
surface portal close to the concentrator. A second decline will be dedicated to
conveying crushed ore directly to the concentrator via two conveyors with a
combined length of 800 m. There will be a two-year pre-production development
period, with steady-state production being reached by the end of Year 2 of an
18- year LOM. The development and production sequence prioritizes high-grade
areas while ramping up overall mine tonnage to the steady state, averaging
approximately 980,000 t/a through to Year 16. 
Geotechnical designs and recommendations are based on the
results of site investigations, and geotechnical assessments that include rock
mass characterization, structural geology interpretations, excavation and pillar
stability analyses, and ground support design. 
The groundwater flow system was conceptualized to provide
inflow estimates to mine workings. These estimates referenced results of site
investigations and hydrogeologic testing and were used to size dewatering
equipment and as input to the process water balance. 
Underground manpower will consist of technical staff, mining
crews, mechanics, electricians, and other support personnel. Pre-production
manpower will be supplied by a contractor, except personnel required for
maintenance and technical support. Total manpower required for full production
is 351, with up to 176 personnel on site at any given time. 
The ventilation system is designed to meet British Columbia
regulations. Permanent surface fans will be located at the portals of the twin,
intake declines. All intake air entering the mine will be heated above freezing
point. 
154 

Paste fill distribution design is based on a dual pumping
system. A positive displacement pump in the paste fill plant will provide paste
to all of the West Zone and the lower zones of the Valley of the Kings. The
paste plant pump will also feed a booster pump located near the main access
point to the Valley of the Kings area located on 1,320 Level. 
Ore will be trucked from working areas to an underground
crusher and then transferred to surface via two, 1.07 metres wide conveyors.
Waste rock will be disposed in the underground mine whenever possible, with the
balance trucked to surface for disposal in Brucejack Lake. 
The mine will be dewatered using a dirty water system of sumps
and pumps. Submersible and centrifugal pumps will be used for development and
permanent mine operations. Solids captured in the main collection sump will be
pumped to the mill for residual gold recovery. For underground worker safety,
both permanent and portable refuge stations are planned. The emergency warning
system will include phones, cap lamp warning system, and stench gas. 
The total project initial mining capital during the
pre-production period, including a 10% contingency, is estimated at $240
million. Sustaining mining capital of $280 million has been estimated for the
production period. The total underground operating cost over the LOM is
estimated to be $1,512 million, at an average LOM cost of $91.34/t. 
Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimates 
The West Zone resource estimate remains unchanged from the
Mineral Resource estimate announced April 3, 2012, and filed on SEDAR April 30,
2012. See Table 2 below. 
In December 2013, Snowden completed a Mineral Resource estimate
for the Valley of the Kings Zone of the Brucejack Project. 
This December 2013 estimate was an update of the previous
November 2012 Mineral Resource estimate and included over 40,000 metres of
additional drilling, including 24 surface drillholes (5,200 metres) and 409
underground drillholes (38,840 metres) drilled in support of the underground
bulk sample. In addition to the drilling, a 10,000 tonne bulk sample was
processed through a mill and detailed test work has been carried out to both
validate the previous Mineral Resources and refine the estimation process for
the updated Mineral Resource. 
The result of the test work is an improved confidence in both
the geological model and the grade estimate, with the definition of Measured
Resources as part of the December 2013 Mineral Resource. 
Bulk Sample Test Work 
In 2013, Pretium Resources excavated a bulk sample from within
the Valley of the Kings to further evaluate the geological interpretation and
provide a comparison with the results from the Mineral Resource estimate. The
location of the proposed bulk sample was selected to be representative of the
grade and character of the typical mineralization in the Valley of the Kings.

The design of the bulk sample was limited by provincial
legislation to a maximum allowable bulk sample size of 10,000 t. The bulk sample
was collected as a series of nominal 100-t rounds in underground development.
Pretium Resources elected to process the bulk sample both through a sample tower
on site and at a custom mill (Contact Mill) in Montana, United States. In
Snowden’s opinion, the results of assaying of the samples from the sample tower
provided an unacceptable degree of variation in the results due to the coarse
gold nature of the mineralization and this information was not used further.

Prior to the December 2013 Mineral Resource estimate, the mill
results from the underground bulk sample processing were used to investigate the
local accuracy of the November 2012 Mineral Resource estimate within the Valley
of the Kings, and to determine whether the estimation methodology could be
improved for the December 2013 Mineral Resource estimate. 
155 

A series of statistical tests were run to determine whether any
bias exists between the surface diamond drilling, underground diamond drilling,
underground channel samples, and chip samples. No significant difference/bias,
based on the statistical analysis, was evident between the different sample
types. 
However, additional test work in the estimation did display
some bias caused by directional drilling in the area of the bulk sample. The
underground drilling had been aligned in a north- south orientation which is
consistent with the orientation of some high-grade mineralization identified in
the bulk sample, resulting in under sampling of this mineralization. Removal of
the underground drillholes resulted in an increase in the grade of the local
estimate. 
While there is no bias evident between the channel samples and
the drilling, the location of numerous channel samples in the centre of some of
the higher-grade mineralization does result in a local overestimation around the
bulk sample crosscuts. Consequently, the decision was made not to use the
channel samples for the final mineral resource estimate. 
The final metal and tonnes from the mill accounting were
compared to those predicted by the November 2012 Mineral Resource estimate for
each drive to assess the effectiveness of the resource modelling process. This
test work has in part relied on comparisons between the test estimates and
results from the bulk sample processing. However, readers should be warned that
there is a significant difference in the sample support for the resource
estimate (each block in the resource estimate represents 2,700 t whereas the
bulk sample packages are around 100 t), and the grade is not homogenous
throughout any block. In other words, the grade can vary from a high-grade side
of the block to a low-grade side of the block, whereas the block grade
represents an average of the whole block. If the bulk sample happens to take a
high-grade part of the block, then the comparison will look like the resource
estimate under-estimated the grade, and conversely if the bulk sample takes a
low- grade part of the block, then the comparison will look like the resource
estimate over-estimated the grade in the block. Whilst it is not entirely valid
to compare the results of the bulk sample with the resource estimate (given the
different sample support) locally, it does provide the best opportunity to
fine-tune the estimate to some hard data. The reader should be warned that the
results are only used to give some local perspective to the grade estimates.

The results indicated that the November 2012 Mineral Resource
underestimated the total metal content in the bulk sample by about 10%. In more
detail, the November 2012 Mineral Resource estimated high-grade into lower-grade
areas, and low-grade into the high-grade areas, a result of extrapolating the
high-grade values around the high-grade core. This extrapolation of high-grade
values was based on the nature of the mineralization and the interpreted
continuity of the high grades. 
Based on the bulk sample comparisons, Snowden concluded that
the November 2012 Mineral Resource was a good representation of the contained
metal within the Valley of the Kings deposit and satisfactory for mining studies
based around bulk underground mining, but that it was not locally accurate at
the 10 metre block scale. As a result further test work was undertaken to adjust
the estimation method for the December 2013 Mineral Resource, to produce an
estimate that is more responsive to the local scale grade variations. 
Mineral Resource Estimate 
The mineralization in the Valley of the Kings exists as steeply
dipping semi-concordant (to stratigraphy) and discordant pod-like zones hosted
in stockwork vein systems within the volcanic and volcaniclastic sequence. High
grade mineralization zones appear to be spatially associated, at least in part,
with intensely silicified zones resulting from local silica flooding and
over-pressure caprock formation. High grade mineralization occurs both in the
main east-west trending vein stockwork system, as well as in the rarer
north-south trending part of the system. Snowden notes that Pretium Resources
has taken these various observations into consideration in its interpretation of
the mineralization domains for the Valley of the Kings. 
A threshold grade of 0.3 g/t Au was found to generally identify
the limits to the broad zones of mineralization as represented in the drill
cores at West Zone and the Valley of the Kings. In the Valley of the Kings, a 1
g/t Au to 3 g/t Au threshold grade was used together with Pretium Resources'
interpretation of the lithological domains, to interpret high grade corridors within
the broader mineralized zones, and define a series of mineralized domains for
estimation. 
156 

All data was composited to the dominant sample length of 1.5
metres prior to analysis and estimation. Statistical analysis of the gold and
silver data was carried out by lithological domain (at the Valley of the Kings)
and mineralized domain. Review of the statistics indicated that the grade
distributions for the mineralization within the different lithologies are very
similar and as a result these were combined for analysis. This is in agreement
with field observations which indicate that the stockwork mineralization is
superimposed on the stratigraphic sequence. The summary statistics of composite
samples from all domains exhibit a strong positive skewness with high
coefficient of variation and some extreme grades. 
Because of the extreme positive skew in the histograms of the
 gold and silver grades within the high grade domains, Snowden elected to use a
 non-linear approach to estimation, employing the use of indicator and truncated
 distribution kriging. In this approach, the proportion of high grade in a block
 was modelled, as was the grade of the high grade portion, and the grade of the
low grade portion. 
The high grade population, which contains a significant number
of samples with extreme grades, required indicator kriging methods for grade
estimation. The low grade population was estimated using ordinary kriging on the
truncated (low grade; <5 g/t Au and <50 g/t Ag) part of the grade
distribution. 
Density was estimated using simple kriging of specific gravity
measurements determined on sample pulps by ALS Chemex. 
Grade estimates and models were validated by: undertaking
global grade comparisons with the input drillhole composites; visual validation
of block model cross sections; grade trend plots; and comparing the results of
the model to the bulk sample cross cuts. 
The resource classification definitions (Measured, Indicated,
Inferred) used for this estimate are those published by the Canadian Institute
of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum in their document “CIM Definition
Standards”. 
In order to identify those blocks in the block model that could
reasonably be considered as a Mineral Resource, the block model was filtered by
a cut-off grade of 5 g/t AuEq. The gold-equivalent calculation used is: AuEq =
Au + (Ag/53). These blocks were then used as a guide to develop a set of
wireframes defining coherent zones of mineralization which were classified as
Measured, Indicated or Inferred and reported. See Table 2.1 and Table 2.2. 
Classification was applied based on geological confidence, data
quality and grade variability. Areas classified as Measured Resources at West
Zone are within the well-informed portion where the resource is informed by 5
metre by 5 metre or 5 metre by 10 metre spaced drilling. Measured Resources
within Valley of the Kings are informed by 5 metre by 10 metre to 10 metre by 10
metre underground fan drilling and restricted to the vicinity of the underground
bulk sample. 
Areas classified as Indicated Resources are informed by
drilling on a 20 metre by 20 metre to 20 metre by 40 metre grid within West Zone
and Valley of the Kings. In addition, some blocks at the edge of the areas with
20 metre by 20 metre to 20 metre by 40 metre drilling, were downgraded to
Inferred where the high grades appear to have too much influence. The remainder
of the Mineral Resource is classified as Inferred Resources where there is some
drilling information (and within around 100 metres of drilling) and the blocks
occur within the mineralized interpretation. 
Areas where there is no informing data and/or the lower grade
material is outside of the mineralized interpretation are not classified as a
part of the Mineral Resource. 
157 

Resource Reporting 
The Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off grade of 5
g/t gold equivalent (AuEq) which reflects the potential economics of a high
grade underground mining scenario. The AuEq value for each block is consistent
with the November 2012 Mineral Resource. In that evaluation, the AuEq value was
calculated according to the formula (AuEq = Au + Ag/53) based upon prices of
US$1,590/oz and US$30/oz for gold and silver respectively. Recoveries for gold
and silver are assumed to be similar. 
High grade Mineral Resources for the Valley of the Kings and
the West Zone are summarized in Table 2.1 and Table 2.2 respectively (below).

Table 2.1 
Valley of the Kings Mineral
Resource estimate 
based on a cut-off grade of 5 g/t AuEq – December
2013(1)(4)(5) 

 
 Category 
 Tonnes
 (millions) 
 Gold
 (g/t) 
 Silver
 (g/t) 
 Contained(3) 
 
 Gold
 (Moz) 
 Silver
 (Moz) 
 
 
 Measured 
 2.0 
 19.3 
 14.4 
 1.2 
 0.9 
 
 Indicated 
 13.4 
 17.4 
 14.3 
 7.5 
 6.1 
 
 M + I 
 15.3 
 17.6 
 14.3 
 8.7 
 7.0 
 
 Inferred(2) 
 5.9 
 25.6 
 20.6 
 4.9 
 3.9 

 
 (1) 
 
 Mineral Resources which are not Mineral Reserves do not
 have demonstrated economic viability. The estimate of Mineral Resources
 may be materially affected by environmental, permitting, legal, marketing,
 or other relevant issues. The Mineral Resources were estimated using the
 Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum, CIM Standards on
 Mineral Resources and Reserves, Definitions and Guidelines prepared by the
 CIM Standing Committee on Reserve Definitions and adopted by CIM
 Council.
 
 
 
 
 (2) 
 
 The quantity and grade of reported Inferred resources in
 this estimation are uncertain in nature and there has been insufficient
 exploration to define these Inferred Resources as an Indicated or Measured
 Mineral Resource and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in
 upgrading them to an Indicated or Measured Mineral Resource
 category.
 
 
 
 
 (3) 
 
 Contained metal and tonnes figures in totals may differ
 due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 (4) 
 
 The Mineral Resource estimate stated in Table 2.1 and
 Table 2.2 is defined using 5 metre by 5 by 5 metre blocks in the well
 drilled portion of West Zone (5 metre by 10 metre drilling or better) and
 10 metre by 10 metre by 10 metre blocks in the remainder of West Zone and
 in Valley of the Kings.
 
 
 
 
 (5) 
 
 The gold equivalent value is defined as AuEq = Au +
 Ag/53.
Table 2.2 West Zone Mineral Resource estimate
based on a cut-off grade of 5 g/t AuEq – April
2012(1)(4)(5) 

 
 Category 
 Tonnes
 (millions) 
 Gold
 (g/t) 
 Silver
 (g/t) 
 Contained(3) 
 
 Gold
 (Moz) 
 Silver
 (Moz) 
 
 
 Measured 
 2.4 
 5.85 
 347 
 0.5 
 26.8 
 
 Indicated 
 2.5 
 5.86 
 190 
 0.5 
 15.1 
 
 M + I 
 4.9 
 5.85 
 267 
 0.9 
 41.9 
 
 Inferred(2) 
 4.0 
 6.44 
 82 
 0.8 
 10.6 
(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) - See notes to Table 2.1. 
158 

Mineral Reserve Estimates 
The mine design and Mineral Reserve estimate have been
completed to a level appropriate for feasibility studies. The Mineral Reserve
estimate stated herein is consistent with CIM Standards on Mineral Resources and
Mineral Reserves. As such, the Mineral Reserves are based on Measured and
Indicated Resources and do not include any Inferred Resources. 
The Mineral Reserves were developed from the resource model
“bjbm_1313_v11_cut”, which was provided to AMC Mining Consultants (Canada) Ltd.
by Snowden, on behalf of Pretium Resources, in February 2014. 
A NSR cut-off grade of $180/t of ore was used to define the
Mineral Reserves (as used in previous studies). The NSR for each block in the
resource model was calculated as the payable revenue for gold and silver, less
refining, concentrate treatment, transportation, and insurance costs. The metal
price assumptions are US$1,100/oz gold and US$17/oz silver. Costs assume a C$ to
US$ exchange rate of 0.92. 
The NSR contributions for both flotation concentrate and doré
were calculated individually, combined, and assigned to each block in the
resource model. 
Dilution and Recovery Estimates 
In the evaluation of Mineral Reserves, modifying factors were
applied to the tonnages and grade of all mining shapes (both stoping and
development) to account for the dilution and ore losses that are experienced at
all mining operations. 
Ore dilution includes overbreak into the design hanging wall
and design footwall, and also into adjacent backfilled stopes. Diluting
materials are assumed to carry no metal values in the estimation of Mineral
Reserve grades. 
The largest component of dilution at the Brucejack Project will
be paste backfill due to its inherently weaker strength compared to the hanging
wall and footwall rock masses for any given dimensions of exposure. 
Ore losses (recovery factors) are related to the practicalities
of extracting ore under varying conditions, including difficult mining geometry,
problematic rock conditions, losses in fill, and blasting issues. 
The dilution factors were calculated from standard overbreak
assumptions that are based on AMC Mining Consultants (Canada) Ltd's experience
and benchmarking of similar long-hole open stope operations. 

 
 • 
 
 Longhole stopes (primary, secondary, tertiary) carry 1.0
 metre of dilution from paste or country rock overbreak into the design
 hanging wall and design footwall, and 0.3 metre of backfill dilution from
 the floor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Secondary or tertiary stopes carry an additional 1.0
 metres of backfill dilution on each wall that exposes a primary stope.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sill pillar stopes are treated as secondary stopes, given
 the additional backfill dilution that can be expected from the roof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Ore cross-cuts carry 0.5 metre of dilution from rock
 overbreak into the design hanging wall and design footwall. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Production slashing of secondary stopes carries 0.5
 metres of backfill dilution on each wall that exposes a primary stope.
 
159 

Mineral Reserves 
Mineral Reserves tabulated by zone and by reserve category are
presented below. 
The estimate of Mineral Reserves may be materially affected by
environmental, permitting, legal, marketing, or other relevant issues. 
The mining blocks divide the Mineral Reserves into logical
parcels consistent with the mining sequence, and form the basis of the LOM
development and production schedule. 
Brucejack Mineral Reserves* by Zone and by Reserve Category
(June 19, 2014) 

 
 Zone 
 Ore
 Tonnes (Mt) 
 Grade
 
 Metal
 
 
 Au
 (g/t) 
 Ag
 (g/t) 
 Au
 (Moz) 
 Ag
 (Moz) 
 
 
 Valley of the Kings Zone 
 Proven 
 2.1 
 15.6 
 12 
 1.1 
 0.8 
 
 
 Probable 
 11.5 
 15.7 
 10 
 5.8 
 3.9 
 
 
 Total 
 13.6 
 15.7 
 11 
 6.9 
 4.6 
 
 West Zone 
 Proven 
 1.4 
 7.2 
 383 
 0.3 
 17.4 
 
 
 Probable 
 1.5 
 6.5 
 181 
 0.3 
 8.6 
 
 
 Total 
 2.9 
 6.9 
 279 
 0.6 
 26.0 
 
 Total Mine 
 Proven 
 3.5 
 12.2 
 161 
 1.4 
 18.2 
 
 
 Probable 
 13.0 
 14.7 
 30 
 6.1 
 12.5 
 
 
 Total 
 16.5 
 14.1 
 58 
 7.5 
 30.7 

 
 *
 
 Resources are inclusive of reserves. Rounding of some
 figures may lead to minor discrepancies in totals. Based on C$180/t cut-
 off grade, US$1,100/oz gold price, US$17/oz silver price, C$/US$ exchange
 rate = 0.92. 
Brucejack Mineral Reserves* by Mining Block (June 19, 2014)

 
 Mining Block 
 Ore
 Tonnes (Mt) 
 NSR
 ($/t) 
 Grade
 
 Contained
 Metal 
 
 Au
 (g/t) 
 Ag
 (g/t) 
 Au
 (Moz) 
 Ag
 (Moz) 
 
 
 Valley of the Kings Upper 
 4.3 
 578 
 16.9 
 12 
 2.3 
 1.6 
 
 Valley of the Kings Middle 
 5.7 
 503 
 14.9 
 10 
 2.7 
 1.9 
 
 Valley of the Kings Lower 
 3.7 
 530 
 15.5 
 9 
 1.8 
 1.1 
 
 Valley of the Kings 
 13.6 
 534 
 15.7 
 11 
 6.9 
 4.6 
 
 WZ Upper 
 0.6 
 304 
 4.2 
 407 
 0.1 
 8.0 
 
 WZ Lower 
 2.3 
 350 
 7.6 
 245 
 0.6 
 18.1 
 
 WZ 
 2.9 
 340 
 6.9 
 279 
 0.6 
 26.0 
 
 Mining Block Total 
 16.5 
 500 
 14.1 
 58 
 7.5 
 30.7 

 
 * 
 
 Resources are inclusive of reserves. Rounding of some
 figures may lead to minor discrepancies in totals. Based on C$180/t
 cut-off grade, US$1,110/oz gold price, US$17/oz silver price, C$/US$
 exchange rate = 0.92. 
Project Infrastructure 
At the time of the Brucejack Report, the Brucejack Project
required the development of a number of infrastructure items. The locations of
project facilities and other infrastructure items were selected to take
advantage of local topography, accommodate environmental considerations, and
ensure efficient and convenient operation of the mine haul fleet. 
160 

Project infrastructure include: 

 
 
 • 
 a 79 km access road at Highway 37 and
 travelling westward to Brucejack Lake with the last 12 km of access road
 to the mine site traversing the main arm of the Knipple Glacier; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 internal site roads and pad areas; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 grading and drainage; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 avalanche hazard assessment; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 mill building and process plant; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 mine site operation camp; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 transmission line and substation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 ancillary facilities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 water supply and distribution; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 water treatment plant; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 waste disposal; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 tailings delivery system; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Brucejack Lake outlet control; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 communications; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 power supply and distribution; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 fuel supply and distribution; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 off-site infrastructure including the Bowser Airstrip and
 Camp and the Knipple Transfer Station facilities. 
Avalanche Hazard Assessment 
An avalanche hazard assessment has been completed for the
Brucejack Project. Mine site facilities and access routes are exposed to
approximately 14 avalanche paths or areas, and the preliminary transmission line
alignment crosses several avalanche paths. Avalanche magnitude and frequency
varies depending on location. Potential consequences of avalanches reaching the
Brucejack Project facilities, transmission line, worksites, and roads include
damage to infrastructure, worker injury (or fatality), and project delays.
Potential consequences of static snow loads on transmission towers include
damage to towers and foundations, and potential loss of electrical service to
the mine. Without mitigation to the effects of avalanches and static snow
loading, there is a high likelihood of some of the above consequences affecting
operations on an annual basis. 
Avalanche mitigation for the Brucejack Project includes
location planning, in order to avoid placement of facilities in avalanche hazard
areas. For areas where personnel and infrastructure may be exposed, an avalanche
management program will be implemented for mine operations during avalanche
season (October through June). The program will utilize an Avalanche Technician
team to determine periods of elevated avalanche hazard and provide
recommendations for closures of hazard areas. The options for reducing control
include explosive control, or waiting for natural settlement. Areas that are
expected to have increased frequency of hazard and consequences will be
evaluated for the installation of the RACS in order to allow for avalanche
explosive control during reduced visibility (darkness and during storms). An
allowance has been made in the capital and operating cost estimates for six
RACSs. 
161 

Tailings Delivery System 
Approximately one half of the tailings produced by mine
operations will be stored underground as paste backfill and approximately one
half will be placed on the bottom of Brucejack Lake. Tailings will be pumped
from the tailings thickener at the process plant by slurry pipeline to the lake
in a manner which will minimize suspended solids concentrations at the lake
outlet. Fine particulate solids may also be suspended in the lake surface layer
if fine waste rock is placed in the lake. Investigations on minimizing or
eliminating this source of suspended solids in the lake outflow are underway.

Environmental 
Pretium Resources is committed to operating the mine in a
sustainable manner and according to Pretium Resources’ guiding principles. Every
reasonable effort will be made to minimize long-term environmental impacts and
to ensure that the Brucejack Project provides lasting benefits to local
communities while generating substantial economic and social advantages for
shareholders, employees, and the broader community. Pretium Resources respects
the traditional knowledge of the Aboriginal peoples who have historically
occupied or used the Brucejack Project area. 
The Brucejack Project area ecosystem is relatively undisturbed
by human activities. Pretium Resources’ objective is to retain the current
ecosystem integrity as much as possible during the construction and operation of
the Brucejack Project. Upon closure and reclamation of the Brucejack Project,
the intent will be to return the disturbed areas to a level of productivity
equal to or better than that which existed prior to project development, and for
the end configuration to be consistent with pre-existing ecosystems to the
extent possible. 
Operating Costs 
In the Brucejack Report, the total LOM average operating cost
for the Brucejack Project was estimated at $163.05/t ore milled which includes
for: 

 
 
 • 
 mining; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 process; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 general and administration (G&A); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 surface services; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 backfill, including paste preparation; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 water treatment. 
The operating costs exclude sustaining capital costs, off-site
costs (such as shipping and smelting costs), taxes, or other government imposed
costs, unless otherwise noted. 
A total of 593 personnel were projected to be required for the
Brucejack Project. The unit cost estimates are based on the LOM ore production
and a mine life of 18 years. The currency exchange rate used for the estimate
was 1.00:0.92 (C$/US$). The operating cost for the Brucejack Project has been
estimated in Canadian dollars within an accuracy range of ±15%. 
Economic Analysis 
In the Brucejack Report, Tetra Tech prepared an economic
evaluation of the Brucejack Project based on a pre-tax financial model. For the
18-year LOM and 16.55 Mt of mine plan tonnage, the following pre-tax financial
parameters were calculated: 
162 

 
 
 • 
 34.7% IRR; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 2.7-year payback on the US$746.9 million
 initial capital; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 US$2,251 million NPV at a 5% discount rate.
 
A post-tax economic evaluation of the Brucejack Project was
prepared with the inclusion of applicable taxes. The following post-tax
financial parameters were calculated: 

 
 
 • 
 28.5% IRR; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 2.8-year payback on the US$746.9 million
 initial capital; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 US$1,445 million NPV at a 5% discount rate.
 
The base case metal prices and exchange rate used for the
Brucejack Technical Report are as follows: 

 
 
 • 
 gold - US$1,100/oz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 silver - US$17.00/oz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 exchange rate - 0.92:1.00 (US$:C$).
 
Update on Brucejack 
2016 Mineral Resource Update 
On July 21, 2016, Pretium Resources announced an updated Valley
of the Kings Mineral Resource estimate in accordance with NI 43-101 for the
Brucejack Project.
The 2015-2016 Valley of the Kings infill drill program was
undertaken to support production planning in the Valley of the Kings and
designed to convert Indicated Mineral Resources into Measured Mineral Resources
in the areas to be mined in the first three years of the current mine plan
(1320-meter level to 1200-meter level) by increasing drill density to 7.5 -meter
to 10-meter centers. The infill drill program was subsequently expanded to
include extensions of Domain 20 which are adjacent to areas planned to be mined
in the early years of the 2014 Feasibility Study Mine Plan.
The program, which consisted of 63,740 meters in 367
drillholes, was successful in increasing the Measured Mineral Resources in the
Valley of the Kings by 58% to 1.9 million ounces (3.5 million tonnes grading
17.0 grams per tonne gold). Results from the program confirmed the style and
grade distribution of the gold mineralization in the area being tested and
included the intersection of high grade and visible gold. 
The program was also successful in adding Indicated Mineral
Resources, with Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources in the Valley of the
Kings now totalling 9.1 million ounces of gold (16.4 million tonnes grading 17.2
grams per tonne gold), an increase from the December 2013 Valley of the Kings
Mineral Resource estimate of Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources which
totalled 8.7 million ounces of gold (15.3 million tonnes grading 17.6 grams per
tonne gold).
Valley of the Kings Mineral Resource estimate – July
2016(1),(4) (Based on a gold-silver cut-off grade of 5.0
grams/tonne(5)) 

 
 Category 
 Tonnes
 (millions) 
 Gold
 (g/t) 
 Silver
 (g/t) 
 Contained(3) 
 
 Gold
 (million oz) 
 Silver
 (million oz) 
 
 
 Measured 
 3.5 
 17.0 
 15.3 
 1.9 
 1.7 
 
 Indicated 
 13.0 
 17.3 
 15.0 
 7.2 
 6.2 
 
 M&I 
 16.4 
 17.2 
 15.0 
 9.1 
 7.9 
163 

 
 Category 
 Tonnes
 (millions) 
 Gold (g/t)
 
 Silver
 (g/t) 
 Contained(3) 
 
 Gold
 (million oz) 
 Silver
 (million oz) 
 
 
 Inferred(2) 
 4.6 
 21.0 
 26.9 
 3.1 
 4.0 
(1) Mineral Resources which are not
Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. The estimate of
Mineral Resources may be materially affected by environmental, permitting,
legal, marketing, or other relevant issues. The Mineral Resources were estimated
using the CIM Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves, Definitions and
Guidelines prepared by the CIM Standing Committee on Reserve Definitions and
adopted by CIM Council. (2) The quantity and grade of reported Inferred
resources in this estimation are uncertain in nature and there has been
insufficient exploration to define these Inferred Resources as an Indicated or
Measured Mineral Resource and it is uncertain if further exploration will result
in upgrading them to an Indicated or Measured Mineral Resource category. (3)
Contained metal figures and totals may differ due to rounding of figures.
(4) The Mineral Resource estimate stated is defined using 10 m by 10 m by 10
m blocks in the Valley of the Kings. 
(5) The gold-silver cutoff value is defined
as Au + Ag/53. 
2016 Mineral Reserve Estimate and Mine Plan
Update 
On December 15, 2016, Pretium Resources announced a positive
updated Valley of the Kings Mineral Reserve estimate for its Brucejack Project
which was based on the 2016 Mineral Resource Estimate Update. 
Valley of the Kings Mineral Reserve Estimate - December
2016(1-5) 

 
 Category 
 Tonnes
 (millions) 
 Gold
 (g/t) 
 Silver
 (g/t) 
 Contained
 
 
 Gold
 (million oz) 
 Silver
 (million oz) 
 
 
 Proven 
 3.3 
 14.5 
 12.9 
 1.6 
 1.4 
 
 Probable 
 12.3 
 16.5 
 11.3 
 6.5 
 4.5 
 
 Total 
 15.6 
 16.1 
 11.1 
 8.1 
 5.9 
(1) The Mineral Reserves and Resources
in this news release were estimated using the CIM Standards on Mineral Resources
and Reserves, Definitions and Guidelines prepared by the CIM Standing Committee
on Reserve Definitions and adopted by CIM Council. (2) Contained metal
figures and totals may differ due to rounding of figures. (3) A 94% tonnage
recovery is used. (4) Assumptions used include US$1,100 per ounce of gold
US$17 per ounce of silver and a $0.92 CAD/US exchange rate. 
(5) A NSR cut-off of
CAD$180/tonne was used to optimize the stopes. 
Financial and Operating Results (2017) 
On March 8, 2018, Pretium Resources reported financial and
operating results for the fourth quarter and year end 2017. 
Pretium Resources produced approximately 152,000 ounces of gold
during the first six months of ramp-up at its Brucejack Mine, averaging 9.4
grams per tonne gold with an all-in sustaining cost (AISC) of $852 per ounce of
gold sold. Pretium Resources also reported significant progress in implementing
its primary strategic objectives of optimizing operations and achieving
operational grade control. 

 
 
 • 
 
 Production totaled 70,281 ounces of gold and 96,004
 ounces of silver in the fourth quarter of 2017, for a total of 152,484
 ounces of gold and 179,237 ounces of silver produced during the first six
 months of production ramp-up. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Mill feed grade averaged 8.2 grams per tonne gold in the
 fourth quarter and 9.4 grams per tonne gold for the first six months of
 ramp- up. 
164 

 
 
 • 
 
 Gold recoveries averaged 95.8% in the fourth quarter of
 2017 for an average gold recovery rate of 96.2% for the first six months
 of production ramp- up. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Process plant throughput averaged 2,951 tonnes per day
 during the fourth quarter of 2017 for an average processing rate of 2,895
 tonnes per day during the first six months of production ramp-up.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Ore milled totaled 271,501 in the fourth quarter of 2017,
 for a total of 532,763 tonnes of ore milled during the first six months of
 production ramp-up. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pretium Resources submitted an application to increase
 the Brucejack Mine production rate to 3,800 tonnes per day in December
 2017. 
Gold and silver production 
During the six months ended December 31, 2017, Pretium
Resources sold 141,927 ounces of gold and 127,746 ounces of silver. As at
December 31 2017, there were 7,716 ounces of gold doré and 10,328 ounces of gold
in concentrate in finished goods. 
Processing 
During the six months ended December 31, 2017, a total of
532,763 tonnes of ore, equivalent to a throughput rate of 2,895 tonnes per day,
was processed. 
The mill feed grade was 9.4 grams per tonne gold and recovery
was 96.2% . Pretium Resources continues to review the mill process to optimize
recoveries. 
The main operating units in the mill building are performing as
expected. Planning is underway to replace the concentrate bagging system which
caused increased mill downtime and maintenance requirements. 
On December 20, 2017, Pretium Resources submitted an
application to the BC Ministry of Energy, Mines and Petroleum Resources and the
BC Ministry of Environment and Climate Change Strategy to increase the Brucejack
Mine production rate to 3,800 tonnes per day. The increase would result in an
annual average production rate of 1.387 million tonnes, up from 0.99 million
tonnes (a daily average of 3,800 tonnes from 2,700 tonnes). The approval process
is expected to take approximately six to twelve months. Engineering is underway
to assess the mill capacity upgrades required to increase the production rate.
Based on preliminary engineering, the capital cost to increase the mill capacity
is estimated to be less than US$25 million. The estimate will be updated when
the engineering process is complete. 
Mining 
During the six months ended December 31, 2017, 552,205 tonnes
of ore were mined, equivalent to a mining rate of 3,001 tonnes per day. 
During the fourth quarter, gold production was lower than
expected as higher-grade stopes scheduled to be mined in December encountered
operational issues (equipment down-time and mining execution), that prevented
them from being mined and delivering higher grade ore to the mill. Both
long-hole drills went down and the stopes could not be drilled off in time.
Mining also encountered a hang-up when blasting a long-hole slot. These issues,
combined with the limited stope inventory (no other high-grade stopes were
accessible in the quarter) contributed to the lower than expected gold
production. 
Pretium Resources has taken a number of steps to address these
operational issues. To improve access and build stope inventory, the rate of
underground development has been increased to 700 meters per month for 2018, up
from the 420 meters originally contemplated in the Brucejack Feasibility Study.
In addition, a third long-hole drill is now on site to provide
back-up and contribute to the build-up of stope inventory. 
165 

During the third and fourth quarter of 2017, two sills were
established to open up two mining horizons for 2018, the 1200-meter Level to the
1320-meter Level and the 1320-meter Level to the 1440-meter Level. With the
continued extension of the mining levels to the east and west within the two
mining horizons and the increase in rate of development, stope inventory is
expected to increase to 10 to 12 stopes with a range of grades by mid-year 2018.
The availability of stopes representing a range of grades, including multiple
higher grade stopes, will allow mining operations to optimize stope blending and
provide alternative stopes with comparable grades for mining if required. The
increased stope inventory is expected to improve the management of production
grades as the ramp-up continues. 
Operational Grade Control 
The grade control program, designed to refine stope dimensions,
reduce dilution and optimize grade, is underway. The program comprises sampling
and drilling, and is currently being integrated into the mining process. 
Stope Ring Sampling 
As part of the grade control program, grade is estimated on a
ring-by-ring basis to refine the shape of the long-hole stope prior to mining.
Long-hole drill cuttings are selectively collected from each ring within a stope
and split into a reduced sample size for assaying. Assayed data from each of the
rings is then fed back into the short-term mine planning cycle to refine stope
dimensions. 
The upgraded and modified underground sample splitting station
is now functional. The sample splitting station is used to further validate the
sampling process. 
Reverse Circulation Drilling 
Another component of the grade control program, reverse
circulation (RC) drilling to optimize stope definition, has commenced on a trial
basis. The RC drill will cross-cut the stopes drilling 5- meter to 7.5 -meter
centers to refine stope location and dimensions prior to mining. The RC drilling
will provide a larger sample per meter and is expected to be faster and more
cost effective than core drilling, which has been used for infill drilling to
date. 
With the operational grade control system now functioning and
continued high definition drilling, steady-state gold production is now expected
to be achieved by mid-to-late 2018. 
Reconciliation of 2017 ramp-up production 
Grade reconciliation to the reserve model for the period August
1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 was approximately 75% to 80% and attributed to: (a)
the small, relatively unrepresentative sample size of production being analyzed,
(b) rudimentary grade control without the grade control program operational and
(c) lack of drill density in a significant area of the contributing stopes.
During the period, ore from the stopes developed on the 1200-meter Level sill
provided approximately 25% of mill feed. These stopes were mined in establishing
the 1200-meter Level sill as part of the long-term mine plan and had a lower
drill density than stopes on other levels of the mine. As the grade control
program becomes operational and mining moves up from the 1200-meter Level into
areas with higher drill density, reconciliation is expected to be more robust.

166 

Regional Exploration 
An extensive regional exploration campaign was initiated in
2015 to identify mineralized zones on the 1,250-square-kilometer, wholly-owned
property similar to the Valley of the Kings and Eskay Creek deposits. A final
data analysis is underway to refine high-priority targets for drilling in spring
2018. 
The comprehensive regional exploration program has included the
collection of over 11,000 samples, regional mapping, prospecting, airborne
geophysics, ground geophysics, hyperspectral mapping, and data compilation. To
date, the program has resulted in the identification of three distinct areas
that have the potential to host epithermal mineralization. 
Several gold and silver epithermal targets have been identified
in the American Creek Zone located approximately 25 kilometers southeast of the
Brucejack Mine. The American Creek valley is dominated by kilometer-scale
north-south structures and localized east-west stockworks, which host elevated
gold values of up to 62.5 grams of gold per tonne in rocks of the Lower Hazelton
Group, Unuk River Formation, the same formation that hosts the Brucejack Mine.
Geophysical conductors identified in the American Creek Zone are supported by
coincident pathfinder minerals and trace elements associated with epithermal
mineralization. 
The Koopa Zone, located approximately 30 kilometers
east-southeast of the Brucejack Mine, is dominated by intensely quartz-sericite
pyrite altered Salmon River Formation volcanics and Quock Formation sediments of
the Upper Hazelton Group. As no previous work had been completed at this zone,
2017 efforts focused on prospecting and mapping, with ground geophysical surveys
undertaken to assist with interpretations at depth and in areas with limited
exposure. Prospective precious and base metal grab samples have been collected
across the zone returning results as high as 5.28 grams of gold per tonne, 1,460
grams of silver per tonne, 9% lead and 25% zinc with geochemical signatures
similar to intrusion-related epithermal gold deposits. 
Approximately 15 kilometers east of the Brucejack Mine,
numerous high-grade gold boulders have been sampled at the Boulder Zone, with
grades as high as 19.25 grams of gold per tonne. Ground geophysics have been
conducted over the area to find the source of the boulders. Alteration,
geochemistry and Upper Hazelton Group rocks in the area do indicate the boulders
are potentially VMS related. 
As results continue to be received, review and analysis of the
extensive regional database continues with the expectation that additional
high-priority areas will be identified. 
167 

SCHEDULE F - TECHNICAL INFORMATION UNDERLYING THE MANTOS
BLANCOS MINE 
Most Recent Technical Report 
The most recent technical report filed by Osisko in accordance
with NI 43-101 is entitled “NI 43-101 Technical Report on the Mantos Blancos
Mine, II Region, Chile”, effectively dated June 23, 2017 (the “Mantos Blancos
Report&rdquo;). Reference should be made to the full text of the Mantos
Blancos Report. The Mantos Blancos Report is not and shall not be deemed to be
incorporated by reference in this Annual Information Form.
Information Contained in this Section 
The technical information, tables and figures that follow have
been derived from the Mantos Blancos Report, which may be consulted under
Osisko’s issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 
The technical information contained in this section has been
reviewed and approved by Mr. Guy Desharnais, Ph.D., P.Geo, who is a “qualified
person” for the purpose of NI 43-101. Portions of the following information are
based on assumptions, qualifications and procedures which are not fully
described herein. 
As a holder of royalties, streams or other interests, Osisko
has limited access to properties included in its asset portfolio. Additionally,
Osisko may from time to time receive operating information which it is not
permitted to disclose to the public. Osisko is dependent on the operators of the
properties and their qualified persons to provide information to Osisko to
prepare required disclosure pertaining to properties and operations on the
properties on which Osisko holds interests and generally has limited or no
ability to independently verify such information. Although Osisko does not have
any knowledge that such information may not be accurate, there can be no
assurance that such third party information is complete or accurate. 
Project Description, Location and Access 
The Mantos Blancos mining district is located in the II Region
of Antofagasta, northern Chile. The property is centered on latitude 23°25'0"S
and longitude 70°4'60"W, approximately 45 km to the north-east of the city of
Antofagasta and approximately 20 km to the southwest of the town of Baquedano.
The properties are easily accessed using Route 5 connecting Antofagasta with
Calama. Cerro Moreno airport is serviced by national flights from Santiago and
other destinations on a daily basis. The airport is located approximately 17 km
to the north of Antofagasta. Antofagasta itself is strategically located on the
Panamericana highway, a well- maintained, multi-lane highway. There is also a
railroad line available, which is used to transport supplies. 
168 

 
Mantos Copper S.A (MC) owns 100% of the Mantos Blancos Mine,
composed of 85 mining properties covering an area of 7,848 ha and 33 exploration
rights claims totaling 19,130 ha. 
Production from the Mantos Blancos Mine is subject to the
Mantos Stream Agreement. For a description of the Mantos Stream Agreement, see
"Description of Material Assets – The Mantos Stream". 
One of the risks to the Mine is the receipt of permit approval
from the various government agencies. Golder has not identified any significant
risks and uncertainties that could reasonably be expected to affect the
reliability or confidence in the exploration information, the Mineral Resources
and Mineral Reserves estimates, or associated projected economic outcomes. 
History 
The economic importance of the district has been known since
1883, when David Cervantes and Carlos Mercado, discovered veins of oxidized
copper ore deposited in the hills located north of the road connecting
Antofagasta and Lomas Bayas (the Panamericana highway). 
In 1953, after various exploration works, the Hochschild Group
acquired part of this ore deposit. Subsequently, in 1955 and after the first
exploration works started using churn-drill drillings, the Hochschild group,
together with other investors and CORFO (a Chilean government industrial
development entity), formed Empresa Minera Mantos Blancos S.A. Studies were
conducted indicating the presence of 11 million tonnes of ore with an average
grade of 1.90% soluble copper. This is a historical estimate only, and a
qualified person has not done sufficient work to classify the historical
estimate as current mineral resources or mineral reserves. None of Osisko, the
Orion Parties or Mantos Blancos is treating the historical estimate as current
mineral resources or mineral reserves. For a statement of current mineral
resources and mineral reserves, see the heading “Mineral Resource and Mineral
Reserve Estimates” below. 
Mantos Blancos has been in production since 1960 as an open pit
mine, with an oxide plant and smelting operations. The mine has long been one of
the major copper mines in the region, with annual refined copper output reaching 20 kt in 1962, at peak production of ingots and
a minor amount of cement of copper. In 1961 the exploitation of oxide ore
through “pits” began, which was treated in a leaching plant, with capacity of
100,000 tonnes per month. The gradual decline of the grades led the company to
an expansion of the plan in order to maintain production; and so, as in 1967,
capacity increased to 200,000 tonnes per month. With some modifications, in 1978
it reached a capacity of 250,000 tonnes per month. 
169 

Between 1963 and 1964, the Mala Suerte mine, being property of
Andromeda Mining Company (owned by Mr. Bartolomé Marré), partially supplied
Mantos Blancos plant with production of 2,000 tonnes per month with grades
around 3.5% SCu. Production history prior to this date is imprecise. Between
1965 and 1968, production averaged 3,000 tons per month, with an average grade
of 2.5% soluble copper. 
In 1974 the underground exploitation of Mantos Blancos started,
 due to the discovery of large reserves of high grade sulphide ore. Between 1968
and 1980 fine copper production averaged 32 ktpa. 
The construction of the flotation plant to treat sulphide ores
began in 1980, when Anglo American acquired 40% of the mine, and four years
later the mine became a main associate of the company. The flotation plant began
operation in March 1981, with a capacity of 4,000 tpd, and a head grade of 1.90%
Cu insoluble and 19 ppm of Ag, reaching a fine copper production of 45 ktpa in
1981. From this year fine copper production incorporated concentrates, in
addition to ingots and cement of copper. 
By mid-1993, pre-stripping began for the Santa Barbara project,
which basically consists of the union of the four existing pits (Elvira, Marina,
Tercera and Quinta, including the underground works) with the aim of maximizing
the recovery of the mineralized zones of the deposit. In December 1996, the
exploitation of underground ore of Mantos Blancos temporarily ended, with the
extraction of the Patricia ore body. From this year on, copper production comes
from concentrates and cathodes. 
The last major milestone was in the year 2000, when Anglo
American reached 99.97% ownership of the Mining Company of Mantos Blancos S.A.,
which also included the Mantoverde Division in Chañaral. In this year fine
copper production reached a peak of 102 ktpa. 
From 2012, the exploitation of Santa Barbara project has fed
the leaching plant and electrowinning with 4.5 Mt of copper oxide ore, with a
head grade of 0.70% SCu, and a flotation plant with 4.5 Mt of copper sulphide
with head grade of 1.10% ICu. 
In 2015, the Mantos Blancos Mine was acquired by Mantos, which
is owned by Audley Advisors Limited and Orion Fund JV Limited. 
Geological Setting, Mineralization and Deposit Types

The Mantos Blancos deposit is located within the coastal range
in Region II of Antofagasta, Chile. The deposit is a volcanic-hosted,
strata-bound copper deposit emplaced during the Upper Jurassic, related to a
system of hydrothermal breccia feeder structures that intruded into the
Paleozoic metasedimentary basement and the La Negra formation, which includes
the mineralized Mantos Blancos volcanic sequence. In a general context, the
Coastal Range in northern Chile is mainly formed by volcanic rocks of Jurassic
age, intruded by granitoids emplaced between the Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous.
In the Mantos Blancos Mining District, sedimentary, volcanic and igneous rocks
are observed ranging in age from Paleozoic and Cenozoic, which represent a
volcanic paleo-arc developed during the Jurassic that would consist of the
Volcanic Sequence Mantos Blancos and the La Negra Formation. These units are
affected by a set of faults located west of the district, who are immersed in
the domain of Atacama's fault zone and are part of the Salar del Carmen segment.

Mineralization at Mantos Blancos occurs as lenses within
specific lithologies. The lenses have been displaced by faults. The porphyritic
dacite unit is the most favourable for mineralization and contains the largest
number of high grade bodies. Mineralized bodies extend discontinuously for
approximately 3 km in an E-W direction, with an approximate width of 1.5 km and
thickness of 450 m. 
170 

Sulphide minerals include chalcopyrite, bornite, silver-rich
digenite and pyrite. This assemblage occurs as disseminations, veinlets and as
rims on quartz phenocrysts within the rhyolitic dome, which developed mainly
within the dioritic and granodioritic magmatic-hydrothermal breccia pipes.
Mineralisation shows lateral copper grade zoning. The highest grade occurs
within the breccia pipe, with lateral zoning to progressively lower
concentrations. 
The mineralization consists of chalcocite (and / or digenite),
covellite, bornite, chalcopyrite, pyrite, specularite, magnetite, galena and low
sphalerite, occurring in disseminated form, following irregular guides and
discontinuous with varying thicknesses. The oxidized copper correspond to
atacamite, chrysocolla, and minor malachite, antlerite, tenorite, cuprite and
almagres, according dissemination and fracture filling. Silver presence occurs
in the crystal structure of the copper sulphides and occasionally as native
silver. The ore bodies are irregular lenses and oxidized copper sulfides
arranged in tabular form with a 100-200 m thick strongly controlled by
structures. 
The mineralization has a distinct vertical zonation, with
specularite at the top (porphyritic andesite and Superior andesite), which is
followed in depth an area of oxidized copper (atacamite with chrysocolla low),
moving to a zone of high grade Sulphide (chalcocite-bornite). The latter
corresponds to irregular lenses chalcocite- rich center, which decreases towards
the edge going to predominate bornite. Surrounding these lenses is a zone of
lower grade with chalcopyrite and bornite, ending in depth with a pyritic zone,
occasionally in some sectors associated with chalcopyrite. The areas with
secondary enrichment are of small extent, predominantly covellite over
chalcocite and located near major faults of the deposit. The oxidized copper
would have developed by the in situ oxidation of primary sulphides. 
Mantos Blancos is a stratabound hydrothermal copper deposit
with subordinate silver mineralization hosted in a riodacitic volcanic complex
where copper mineralization is strongly controlled by structures. Stratabound
hydrothermal copper deposits are mainly associated with hydrothermal breccia
feeder structures that contain at least 50% of the economic mineralization and
the highest ore grade. The mineralization at Mantos Blancos is concentrated
within a dacitic lava package dipping south between 18° and 25° in the main
mineralized area. 
Exploration 
Ongoing exploration is conducted by Mantos Blancos with the
primary purpose of supporting mining and increasing Mineral Resources available
for mining exploitation. The exploration strategy is focused on tracing known
targets as extensions from current orebodies utilizing host rock and alteration
features down dip and along strike. Historically, this strategy has proven
effective in defining new Mineral Resources.
Drilling 
Mantos Blancos collects two different types of sample for
geological modelling and resource estimation, diamond drill hole core (DDH) and
reverse circulation drill chips (RC). Diamond drill holes (DDH) were drilled
historically, and most are located in the mined-out part of the mine. DDH are no
longer being drilled at Mantos Blancos, except for geotechnical or
geometallurgical purposes. 
Mantos Blancos conducted drill programs for exploration and
mine development purposes. The 2016 resource model update considered the
inclusion of 362 new drill samples and 90,611 metres, distributed as RC, DDH and
sonic (dumps). The new drillings included drill holes from the 2014 drilling
campaigns (drill holes not included in the previous resource model), 2015, and
also included 89,000 metres from the 2012, 2013 and 2014 campaigns delayed as a
result of the implementation of the QA/QC program. 
For the update of the 2016 model, a total of 15,643 drill holes
with a total of 2,274,947 metres were used, corresponding to all drillings
accumulated up to the date of closing of the database. 
171 

The collar surveying at the Mantos Blancos mine is obtained
using high precision GPS and total station for the surface data. Daily
operational surveying is undertaken with either GPS or total station and prism.
Mantos Blancos adopted the local coordinate system based on UTM coordinates.

For the 2014 and 2015 drilling campaigns, down hole surveys
were measured by Wellfield Services with an SRG gyroscope. Measures were taken
each 10 metres over the depth of the drillhole, and a second measurement is
taken when the equipment is lifted. Also as a QA/QC procedure 10% of the drill
holes were re-surveyed, with most of the holes showing little deviation. 
Sampling, Analysis and Data Verification 
Reverse Circulation Samples 
Since 2009, RC samples are taken at regular 6.0 metre
intervals, weighing approximately 120 kg per 6.0 metre interval. The material is
dropped directly from the cyclone to a riffle splitter. The cyclone has a lever
at the side used to open the bin at the end of the sample interval. Both
portions of the sample are directly passed twice through two splitters located
in series to obtain four equally sized samples. Each sample is passed through
another splitter to obtain the sample that will be sent to mechanical
preparation. The samples are put into plastic bags, weighed at the site, and the
values are recorded manually. 
Sample Preparation 
The mechanical sample preparation of RC and DDH samples is
conducted in Inspectorate laboratory in Antofagasta. 

 
 
 • 
 
 Cleaning: before each batch of samples the crusher is
 cleaned with quartz, and the material is discarded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Blank sample: the first sample of each batch corresponds
 to the quartz, and this sample follows the entire cycle until chemical
 analysis to check for the presence of contamination. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Primary/Secondary Crushing: the entire sample is crushed
 to 95% passing 2.36 mm particle size. For 1 in each 30 samples a
 granulometric test is carried to check particle size. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Splitting: depending on the weight of the sample the
 splitting follows one of two procedures, 

 
 
 • 
 
 Samples > 15 kg use a rotary splitter until 1.5 to 2
 kg is obtained. The sample is passed through a Jones splitter until 300 g
 remains. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 Samples < 15 kg are split with a Jones
 splitter until 300 g is obtained. 

 
 
 • 
 
 In both situations, one duplicate is obtained every 20
 samples. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pulverization: the entire sample is pulverised with an
 LM1 until 95% of the sample passes < 0.104 mm. For one in every 30
 samples, a granulometric test is carried out to check particle size.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The sample is then put into a paper envelope, labelled
 with a bar code and sent to the chemical lab for assaying.
 
Assaying 
For TCu and Pb, 1 g of sample is taken, 10 ml of HNO3, 5ml of
HClO4 and 15 ml of HF are added, a cold digestion is carried out for one hour
and then salts are dissolved with 25 ml of HCl and filled to 100 ml. 
172 

For SCu 0.5 g of sample is taken, 50 ml of H2SO4 are added, it
is stirred for 20 minutes at 140 rpm, then transferred to 100 ml and flocculant
is added (boiling method). 
For Ag, 2 g of the sample is taken, 10 ml of HNO3, 5 ml of
HClO4 and 15 ml of HF are added, a cold digestion is carried out for one hour
and then salts are dissolved with 12.5 ml of HCl and filled into 50 ml. 
For carbonate (Ca3), weigh 0.1 g of sample (in a refractory
crucible), 1 g of accelerator is added and LECO equipment is used. 
Sample Security 
Drill core is moved from the drill rig to the core shack by
external personnel. In the core shack, geological data logging is completed at
site using a digital system. Before the data is available for estimation
purposes, data is verified and reviewed, field checked if necessary, and then
uploaded to the main database. Samples are delivered by Mantos Blancos for
sample preparation at the laboratory. 
Mantos Blancos uses BDGeo as the system to coordinate and
handle the complete data input process. The database is backed up on a regular
basis. 
All Mantos Blancos samples are stored and secured in the mine
site under good conditions to ensure their quality. 
Quality Assurance and Quality Control 
All QA/QC is handled online automatically using BDGeo
software®. QA/QC procedures include the insertion of a control sample of:
standards, pulp and coarse duplicates, and blank samples into every batch of
samples sent to the laboratories. The creation of the batch is done on site in
BDGeo by personnel of Mantos Blancos, and include 1 standard, 1 blank, 1 coarse
and 1 pulp duplicate. Sample batches contain 20 samples. 
The quality assessment over the 2015 campaign was controlled
through standards insertion (certificated in OREAS-Australia). Apart of
standards, coarse and pulp duplicates have been used. The insertion rate is 5%
for each stage of control. The mass reduction of samples was carried out by
Inspectorate Company and the chemical analysis was made by SGS Chile Ltda.
Coarse, pulp and standards (internal checks) verifications were also carried out
in this last laboratory. 
The quality control procedure (standards, blanks, and
duplicates) have acceptable levels of accuracy and precision, the preparation of
sample and laboratory results have been controlled. 
Certified Reference Material 
Mantos Blancos routinely inserts Certified Reference Materials
(CRMs) or standards into the analytical stream to assess the assaying laboratory
for accuracy and to determine if there is any bias present. The material used
for the construction of the standards is from the mine and prepared and
certified by external laboratories. Standards cover a range of TCu
concentrations to appropriate represent different ranges. The result of the
standards are good and no obvious issues with the exactitude were identified.
The tolerance limit for acceptance are +- 2 standard deviations. If the standard
value is out of the defined limit the complete batch is sent back to the
laboratory for analysis. 
Blank Samples 
Blank samples are inserted into the sampling stream as a QA/QC
check for sample contamination and is inserted as part of the batch sent for
mechanical preparation. The material used as blank is obtained from blast holes
with TCu grades of 0.01 % which were logged as rhyodacite. There is no evidence
of contamination during the mechanical preparation. 
173 

Duplicate Samples 
The duplicates are prepared and inserted on-site, and include
two types of samples: 

 
 • 
 Coarse Duplicate: correspond to a second
 portion of material obtained after the first crushing. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pulp Duplicate: correspond to a second portion of
 material obtained after the pulverization of the sample.

The protocol details that the duplicate of a sample must be
sent in a different batch than the one used for the original sample. The result
of the coarse and pulp duplicates were acceptable and no obvious issues with the
accuracy were identified. 
Data Verification 
Data verification has been an integral part of Mantos Blancos
drilling campaigns and resource estimation. As part of the protocols all sample
rejects and pulp samples are appropriately stored inside shipping containers
modified for this purpose. Inside the containers samples are properly organized
and stored. The database for the resource Model is extracted directly through
the DBGEO © interface software. This software is a geological database
administrator, which validates the information according to the primary key. For
data validation purposes and to avoid errors in the Resource Model construction
the database is analyzed prior to the compositing. This verification includes
consistence between different tables, existence of gaps and duplicity of
information. 
Golder completed a set of data validation queries using Vulcan
and internal software (Datacheck) and found no important validation issues.
Golder is of the opinion that the drill hole database is valid and acceptable
for resource estimation. 
Mineral Processing and Metallurgical Testing
The copper recovery considered for vat and dump leaching was
defined assuming the average of the last twelve months, which was used to update
the recovery model considering the metallurgic balance, tonnage and chemical
grades. 
The sulphide copper recovery in the concentrator was based on
the geometallurgical model for the first five years (2017 – 2021) that
considered the laboratory samples. For the following years (after 2022), the
copper recovery was defined assuming the average of the last twelve months -
that includes metallurgic balance, tonnage and chemical grades - which are used
to update the polynomial recovery curve. 
Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimates 
Mineral Resources 
The geological modelling of the Mantos Blancos mine considers
the construction of two models. 

 
 • 
 
 Lithology model, this model is not used for any
 estimation purpose, and only for geometallurgical considerations. The
 lithological model was developed by Mantos Blancos geologists using a
 probabilistic model considering the lithological description from the
 geological mapping of rock units present in Mantos Blancos. 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Dike model, this model is constructed deterministically
 by interpretation in sections and uses information form drill holes and
 bench logging. 3D solids are constructed based on the sectional
 interpretation and the block model (with small blocks) is flagged. The
 dike model has not been updated since 2015. 
174 

The lithology model is based on the probability of the
existence of a specific rock unit. This probability is estimated by
interpolation of indicators that are based on the rock codes extracted from the
database. Mantos Blancos used a probability threshold of 50% to assign the
blocks to a given unit. Mantos Blancos found a few cases where there were equal
probabilities for multiple units and these cases were solved by taking into
account the unit that was predominant in the local neighborhood. 
The dike model is not used for grade estimation. During the
estimation it is assumed that grades are continuous across units in the deposit,
and then the dike model is used for dilution assuming a TCu grade of 0% for all
complete and partial dike blocks (the dike model is constructed with small
blocks 5 x 5 x 5 m). 
The drill hole database used for resource estimation contains
15,643 drill holes (drill type: DDH, RCD, Sonic drilling for dump). The
information used in the current resource model is equivalent to 2,274,947
metres. 
Resource Classification 
The Mineral Resources were classified by two indicators
probabilistic methodology, which uses grade kriging variance as classification
thresholds. The method is based on relative errors in metal and tonnage
calculated for monthly and annual production periods using spatial indicators
and grade variability models. 
The Mineral Resources are classified as measured when the local
grade, whose variability is corrected to 1-month of production, is estimated
with an error that is not greater than 15% with a 90% level of confidence. 
Mineral Resources are classified as indicated when the local
grade, whose variability is corrected to 1-year of production, is estimated with
an error not greater than 15% with a 90% level of confidence. 
Mineral Resources that do not comply with the aforementioned
criteria are classified as inferred. 
To avoid the extrapolation effect, only Mineral Resources
within the approved drilled and sampled perimeter were considered for
classification. 
Mineral Resource Estimates 
The Mineral Resource estimates for Mantos Blancos are shown in
Tables 3.1 and Table 3.2. The resource is separated by material type. The
mineral resource estimate uses ordinary kriging grades as these are believed to
be the most robust. The deposit has silver mineralization which is not currently
included in the Resource estimate, and will not be until an appropriate
validation is completed. Based on the current resource model, Mantos Blancos
estimation for silver content for sulphide mineralization inside the Mineral
Resources pit indicates a total of 99 Mt with an average grade of 4.88 g/t.
Mineral Resources are enclosed within pit shells that were optimized using
Measured, Indicated and Inferred resources at a copper price of US$3.77 USD/lb.

Table 3.1 
Mineral Resources inclusive of Reserves as of December 31,
2016 - Sulphides - Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category
 
 Tonnes
 (000 t) (2) 
 Grade
 % ICu (3)
 Current
 Contained Cu (t) (4)
 
 Sulphide (Flotation
 and LF)(1) 
 Measured 
 14,344 
 0.71 
 101,771 
 
 Indicated 
 62,390 
 0.54 
 336,906 
 
 Measured + Indicated 
 76,724 
 0.57 
 438,677 
 
 Inferred (inside reserve pit)
 
 3,253 
 0.52 
 16,916 
 
 Inferred (outside reserve pit)
 19,209
 0.50
 96, 045
 
175 

 
 Process 
 Category
 
 Tonnes (000 t) (2)
 
 Grade % ICu (3)
 
 Current
 Contained Cu (t) (4) 
 
 
 Inferred stockpile (Canada 90) 
 21 
 0.38 
 80 
 
 
 Total Inferred 
 22,483 
 0.50 
 113,040 
 
Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.26% ICu.
 
 (2) 
 
 Tonnes on dry basis.
 
 (3) 
 
 Copper grade based on Insoluble Copper (ICu).
 
 (4) 
 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the following
 formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x 10 (% ICu) x 10.
 
 (5) 
 
 Mineral Resource pit is based on 3.77 US$/lb of
 Cu.
Table 3.2 
Mineral Resources inclusive of Reserves as of December 31,
2016 - Oxides - Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category
 
 Tonnes (000 t) (3) 
 Grade % ICu (4) 
 Current
 Contained Cu (t) (5) 
 
 
 
 Oxide
 (Heap and Vat Leaching)(1)
 
 Measured 
 2,427 
 0.43 
 10,436 
 
 Indicated 
 9,027 
 0.39 
 35,205 
 
 Measured + Indicated 
 11,454 
 0.40 
 45,641 
 
 Inferred (inside reserve pit) 
 460 
 0.35 
 1,610 
 
 Inferred (outside reserve pit) 
 4,438 
 0.42 
 18,640 
 
 Total Inferred 
 4,898 
 0.41 
 20,250 
 
 Oxide
 (Dump Leaching)(2) 
 Measured 
 458 
 0.18 
 824 
 
 Indicated 
 5,611 
 0.17 
 9,539 
 
 Measured + Indicated 
 6,069 
 0.17 
 10,363 
 
 Inferred in situ (inside reserve pit) 
 633 
 0.17 
 1,076 
 
 Inferred in situ (outside reserve pit) 
 2,702 
 0.17 
 4,593 
 
 Inferred (in LOM) Mercedes F2 
 21,996 
 0.19 
 41,792 
 
 Inferred (in LOM) F2 Botadero E 
 6,053 
 0.18 
 10,895 
 
 Total Inferred 
 31,384 
 0.19 
 58,357 
Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.22% permits that are considered in the
 matrix of identification and SCu.
 
 (2) 
 
 Cut-off of 0.13% SCu.
 
 (3) 
 
 Tonnes on dry basis.
 
 (4) 
 
 Copper grade based on Soluble Copper (SCu).
 
 (5) 
 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the following
 formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% SCu) x 10.
 
 (6) 
 
 Mineral Resource pit is based on 3.77 US$/lb of
 Cu.
Mineral Reserves 
The Mineral Reserves as of December 31, 2016, are presented in
Table 3.3 and Table 3.4. Golder carried out a Level 1 Mineral Reserves audit for
Mantos Blancos Division according the JORC Code (2012). The activities developed
included a review of input data, methodology, and results supporting the 2016
LoM. Golder was able to reproduce the Mineral Reserves contained in the
statement dated December 31, 2016, and are not aware of any mining, metallurgical, infrastructure,
permitting, or other relevant factors that could materially affect the Mineral
Reserve estimate. Reserves are reported inclusive of resources.
176 

Table 3.3 
Mineral Reserves inclusive of Resources as of December 31,
2016 - Sulphides - Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category 
 Tonnes (000 t)(3) 
 Grade % ICu(3) 
 Current
 Contained Cu (t)(4) 
 
 
 Sulphides
 (Flotation)(1) 
 Proved 
 27,132 
 0.86 
 233,335 
 
 Probable 
 54,021 
 0.60 
 323,110 
 
 Total 
 81,153 
 0.69 
 556,445

Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.26% ICu.
 
 (2) 
 
 Tonnes on dry basis.
 
 (3) 
 
 Copper grade based on Insoluble Copper (ICu).
 
 (4) 
 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the following
 formulas: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% ICu) x 10
Table 3.4 
Mineral Reserves ainclusive of Resources s of December 31,
2016 - Oxides - Mantos Blancos 

 
 Process 
 Category 
 Tonnes
 (000 t)(3) 
 Grade %
 SCu(4) 
 Current
 Contained Cu (t)(5) 
 
 Oxides (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved 
 1,720 
 0.35 
 6,020 
 
 Probable 
 11,825 
 0.29 
 33,853 
 
 Total 
 13,545 
 0.29 
 39,873 
 
 Este Stockpile (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 Probable 
 11,378 
 0.18 
 20,480 
 
 Total 
 11,378 
 0.18 
 20,480 
 
 Mercedes Stockpile (Dump
 Leaching)(1) 
 Proved 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 Probable 
 36,639 
 0.19 
 69,614 
 
 Total 
 36,639 
 0.19 
 69,614 
 
 Oxides (Heap and Vat
 Leaching)(2) 
 Proved 
 1,004 
 0.46 
 4,618 
 
 Probable 
 2,852 
 0.45 
 12,834 
 
 Total 
 3,856 
 0.45 
 17,452 
Notes: 

 
 (1) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.13% SCu.
 
 (2) 
 
 Cut-off grade of 0.22% SCu.
 
 (3) 
 
 Tonnes on dry basis.
 
 
 (4) 
 
 Copper grade based on soluble copper (SCu).
 
 
 (5) 
 
 Contained Metal (CM) is calculated by the following
 formula: CM = Tonnes (000 t) x (% SCu) x 10.
 

177 

Mantos Copper maintains a reconciliation between the Mineral
Reserve model and actual mine production. Reconciliations to 2016 production
indicate that the Mineral Resource model is performing well for sulphide ore
with the normal range of variability (± 10%). The long-term model for oxide ore
has consistently reported more tonnage (19% higher in the period) and copper
grade (11% higher in the period). 
Mining Operations 
Mantos Blancos is an open pit mine extracting both sulphide and
oxide copper ores, which are treated in crushing, milling, concentrator,
leaching, solvent extraction and electro-winning plants, producing copper
concentrates and high purity (LME Grade A) copper cathodes. 
The Mantos Blancos Mine includes one large open pit (Santa
Barbara) that provides sulphide ore to feed the concentrator and oxide ore to
the leach pads. Other sources of ore in the Mantos Blancos Mine are sulphide ore
stock (Cancha 90) and oxide ore stocks (Mercedes and Este). 
The Mineral Resources reported as of December 31, 2016 are
based on the resources model developed in June 2016 and used to define the LoM
that consists of ten pushbacks which will be mined during the period from 2017
to 2029. The total material (ore and waste) moved increases by 30.2 Mt in 2017
to 60.0 Mt in 2020, remaining at this level until 2026 when it begins to
decrease until 2029. Considering the ore rehandle from stockpiles to
concentrator and the oxide ore to the Mercedes dump, the total material moved
reaches 62.1 Mt in 2024. 
The cut-off grades were defined based on economic parameters
for the three metallurgical processes used in Mantos Blancos mine, adopting the
values of 0.26% (Insoluble copper - ICu), 0.22% (Soluble copper - SCu) and 0.13%
(Soluble copper - SCu) for flotation, Vat and Dump leaching respectively. 
Processing and Recovery Operations 
Oxide ore from the mine is processed using a combination of
vat, dump, and heap leaching. Currently, vats process 1.5 Mtpa of oxide ore.
Dump leaching is used to process around 5.9 to 15.0 Mtpa from the Este and
Mercedes dumps. The vat and dump leaching processes end in 2019. 
Treatment of the copper-rich pregnant leach solution occurs in
the solvent extraction-electrowinning plant to produce copper cathodes. The
maximum production capacity is 65 ktpa of fine copper. The life of mine plan for
the solvent extraction-electrowinning cathode plant considered a fine copper
production of 18.0 ktpa up to 2018 and 13.4 ktpa in 2019. 
Sulphide ore is processed in the concentrator plant, where
copper concentrate is produced, with an average grade ranging from 29% to 33%.
The sulphide processing plant will operate at a throughput capacity of 4.7 Mtpa
from 2017 to 2019 when the ramp-up of the new sulphide line is expected to
start, increasing the processing plant capacity up to 7.3 Mtpa from 2021.
According to the life of mine plan, the concentrator will produce 25.7 ktpa of
fine copper (contained) in 2017, reaching the maximum production of 57.2 ktpa in
2023. 
In order to maintain the copper production and use the sulphide
ore reserves available at deeper levels of the deposit, Mantos Blancos has
developed an expansion plan to increase the current processing level of 4.7 Mtpa
up to 7.3 Mtpa, starting in 2020. Mantos Copper has contracted Hatch for the
related engineering studies to develop technical solutions, estimating capex and
opex, and defining the plan for implementing the facilities expansion. 
178 

Current Mineral Processing 
The current ore processing at Mantos Blancos has two operating
lines, one for sulphide ore and the other for oxide ore. When the Mantos Blancos
Mine operation began, the oxide line was the most important due to the
processing of oxidized and mixed ores mined in the upper portions of the
deposit. With the deepening of the mine, these materials became more scarce and
consequently the cathode production has decreased. For these reasons Mantos
Copper is conducting studies on increasing the sulphide processing capacity to
compensate for the production of the oxide operation that will be shut down.

Infrastructure, Permitting and Compliance Activities

Access 
The Mantos Blancos Mine is accessed by paved public roads. The
mine has a number of private roads for access to the various facilities. The
private roads include small vehicle roads as well as a network of haul roads.
The haul roads are built to a width suitable for the haul trucks. Most
consumables and personnel are transported these routes by light vehicles. 
Buildings and Facilities 
The infrastructure for the Mantos Blancos mine is developed and
in service. Figure 3.1 shows the general layout of Mantos Blancos
infrastructure.
Figure 3.1 

 
The main facilities in the Mantos Blancos Mine are the Santa
Barbara pit, the Argentina Norte dump, the Fase 8 dump, the Este dump, the Oeste
dump, the concentrator plant, the vats, the coarse tailings deposit, the fine
tailings deposit, the Mercedes stockpile, the Mercedes dump, secondary leaching
piles, and the solvent extraction - electrowinning plant. Ancillary facilities
in the mine are workshops and warehouses, administrative buildings and offices
and explosives and chemicals storage. 
Water Supply 
Water is supplied by Ferrocarriles Antofagasta Bolivia (FCAB)
and Aguas Antofagasta. Water is pumped and transported by pipelines from Siloli
and Toconce, located approximately 250 km from the Mantos Blancos Mine. Currently, the water consumption of the Mantos
Blancos site is 10,000 m3/day, and the maximum storage capacity is
17,000 m3. 
179 

Due to the reduction of the material treated in the vats,
reduction of processing in the dump leach and optimization of the water recovery
in the tailings, the estimated water consumption for the life of the mine does
not exceed the 145 l/s value contracted with FCAB and Aguas Antofagasta, except
in the years 2017 and 2018, where it will be supplied based on an additional
contract. 
The industrial water supply contract of 130 l/s with Aguas
 Antofagasta ends in 2023, with a clause allowing a first renewal for five years
 until 2028, and a second extension for the same time until 2033. A contract with
 FCAB to supply 15 l/s of better quality water to be used in specific processes
 ends in 2018. Mantos Blancos plans to renew this contract during 2017. The
Mantos Blancos site does not have a water intake permit. 
Power 
Electrical power is provided by ENORCHILE and delivered to the
mine through a high voltage power line (220 kV) connected to the national grid.
The Mantos Blancos site has a power plant managed by an external company and
connected to the national grid as well. The current electrical power supply
contracts are sufficient to comply with the demands according to the mine plan.

Communications 
The mine site has a communication network of telephones and
licensed UHF radio repeaters within the main pit mining area. Outside this area
the communication is by means of UHF CB radio, satellite phone, and cellular
phone. 
Tailings Storage Facility 
Tailings from the concentrator plant are separated into fine
and coarse tailings. Currently, tailings production is 4.42 Mtpa, including 1.76
Mtpa of fine tailings and 2.66 Mtpa of coarse tailings. 
Social or Community Impact 
The Mantos Blancos area of influence includes the city of
Antofagasta, and Baquedanoa, a small community of 900 people located 20 km north
of the mine. The engagement plan developed by Mantos Copper focuses on the
following three pillars of action: 

 
 • 
 
 Education: providing quality educational establishments
 in the area of influence and development through support of talented
 students; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sustainable communities: supporting projects to improve
 the quality of life of the local people and the quality of the
 environment; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Entrepreneurship and employability: providing technical
 to micro and small businesses from different industries in the area of
 influence and development, along with improving the employability of
 vulnerable groups. 
Permitting 
Environmental studies are ongoing and conducted as required to
support the operation and any ancillary projects. The qualified persons for the
Mantos Blancos Technical Report are not aware of any known environmental issues
that could materially impact Mantos Blancos' ability to operate. 
The permit classification adopted by Mantos Copper is divided
into the following categories: 
180 

 
 • 
 
 Approved: current licenses with a control plan of
 the commitments and monitoring included. This category includes licenses
 that have been corrected or rectified; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In process: licenses that have been submitted to
 the competent departments, or those do not have the total of commitments
 or without a control plan of the commitments and monitoring included. This
 category includes permits in process that were refused by the authorities
 or withdrawn by Mantos Copper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pending: licenses that have been identified as
 necessary but not submitted, awaiting approval of previous stages of
 projects. This category could be classified as "In preparation" or "In
 planning"; 
 
 
 
 
 
 •
 
 In preparation: permit that is in
 preparation or under internal review; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In planning: permits that are considered in the
 matrix of identification and that have been reported to the corresponding
 areas as necessary; 
 
 
 
 
 
 •
 
 Closed: permits that have complied with its term
 of validity. 

 
 
 • 
 In 2016, twenty-three new permits were approved
 and eleven were in process. 
Capital and Operating Costs 
Capital Costs 
Table 3.5 provides the capital costs (CAPEX) from 2017 to 2029.
The total CAPEX for the life of mine plan is USD$228.5 million. 
Table 3.5 
Capital Costs 

 
 Description 
 Unit 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 
 Mining fleet 
 MUSD 
 
 
 2.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sulphide concentrator 
 MUSD 
 2.3 
 1.2 
 0.9 
 0.4 
 1.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oxide plant 
 MUSD 
 4.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tailings dam 
 MUSD 
 
 
 1.3 
 4.8 
 2.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Infrastructure 
 MUSD 
 1.8 
 0.9 
 2.5 
 0.6 
 0.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Minor projects 
 MUSD 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Deferred Capex MB Project 
 MUSD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.3 
 17.1 
 16.2 
 3.9 
 
 
 
 
 Stay-in- business - Long-term (3% of direct cost) 
 MUSD 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.8 
 5.9 
 6.0 
 6.0 
 5.9 
 4.6 
 4.5 
 
 
 Expansionary Capex 
 MUSD 
 
 6.6 
 81.9 
 32.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 MUSD 
 9.1 
 9.0 
 89.2 
 38.9 
 4.4 
 5.8 
 8.2 
 23.1 
 22.1 
 9.7 
 4.6 
 4.5 
 
181 

Operating Costs 
The operating costs for Mantos Blancos are developed annually
as part of the site budget process. The OPEX is shown in the tables below. The
average operating cost (C1 cash cost) from 2017 to 2029 is 2.10 USD/lb. Golder
considers the operating cost estimates in the LoM plan to be reasonable and
consistent with historical performance. The concentrate produced by Mantos
Blancos contains silver that is also commercialized. Table 3.6 shows the unit
cost. 
Table 3.6 
Cash Cost 

 
 Description 
 Unit 
 2017 
 2018 
 2019 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 
 Mining Cost 
 c/lb 
 79.5 
 97.4 
 104.6 
 141.0 
 96.7 
 89.7 
 89.2 
 103.8 
 113.4 
 110.6 
 64.0 
 50.3 
 8.5 
 
 Processing Cost 
 c/lb 
 107.6 
 115.3 
 101.0 
 74.6 
 65.0 
 64.3 
 58.4 
 64.7 
 71.3 
 71.3 
 69.7 
 83.8 
 94.8 
 
 G&A 
 c/lb 
 19.5 
 20.3 
 19.0 
 15.5 
 10.6 
 10.1 
 9.5 
 10.5 
 11.6 
 11.6 
 11.3 
 11.6 
 16.8 
 
 C0 
 c/lb 
 206.7 
 233.1 
 224.5 
 231.1 
 172.3 
 164.2 
 157.0 
 179.0 
 196.3 
 193.5 
 145.0 
 145.6 
 120.1 
 
 Freight 
 c/lb 
 4.1 
 4.1 
 4.6 
 5.4 
 5.3 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.4 
 5.0 
 4.6 
 
 TCRC 
 c/lb 
 14.1 
 13.9 
 17.4 
 25.6 
 25.3 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 25.6 
 22.2 
 17.4 
 
 C1 (before by- products) 
 c/lb 
 224.8 
 251.1 
 246.5 
 262.1 
 202.9 
 195.1 
 188.0 
 209.9 
 227.2 
 224.5 
 176.0 
 172.8 
 142.1 
 
 By-products credit 
 c/lb 
 9.2 
 1.5 
 15.3 
 17.7 
 23.2 
 15.1 
 18.4 
 27.7 
 20.2 
 13.7 
 15.8 
 11.2 
 15.2 
 
 C1 cash cost 
 c/lb 
 215.7 
 239.6 
 231.2 
 244.4 
 179.7 
 180.0 
 169.6 
 182.3 
 207.1 
 210.8 
 160.2 
 161.6 
 126.9 
 
 Def Stripping 
 c/lb 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C1 
 c/lb 
 215.7 
 239.6 
 231.2 
 244.4 
 179.7 
 180.0 
 169.6 
 182.3 
 207.1 
 210.8 
 160.2 
 161.6 
 126.9 
 
 Depreciation 
 c/lb 
 57 
 48 
 30 
 70 
 45 
 35 
 29 
 27 
 10 
 13 
 15 
 16 
 29 
 
 Stripping Amortization 
 c/lb 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 C2 
 
 272.3 
 287.9 
 261.4 
 314.2 
 225.1 
 215.1 
 199.0 
 208.9 
 217.0 
 224.1 
 175.2 
 177.8 
 155.5

Net Present Value 
A sensitivity analysis for the NPV was performed using
variations in OPEX, CAPEX, discount rate, and copper prices. Simulations were
conducted treating the variables independently. Ten percent increments were
adopted for a total variation of ± 30%. The NPV is 185m USD at a discount rate
of 8.0% . 
The sensitivity analysis was performed disregarding the credits
obtained with silver to simulate the worst case, verifying if in this condition
the outcome is still a positive cash flow that supports the statement of Mineral
Reserves. 
Results of the sensitivity analysis suggest significant
exposure to variations in copper prices and OPEX. According to the analysis, a
decrease in the copper price of more than 11% or an increase in the OPEXof more
than 12% could result in a negative cash flow and, therefore, make the project
not feasible. 
The impact of CAPEX variations is not significant compared to
variations in copper price and OPEX. 
Table 3.7 
NPV sensitivity analysis - MUSD 

 
 Parameter/Variation 
 -30% 
 -20% 
 -10% 
 0% 
 +10% 
 +20% 
 +30% 
 
 Copper Price 
 (405) 
 (184) 
 23 
 185 
 337 
 483 
 622 
182 

 
 Parameter/Variation 
 -30% 
 -20% 
 -10% 
 0% 
 +10% 
 +20% 
 +30% 
 
 OPEX 
 236 
 219 
 202 
 185 
 169 
 152 
 135 
 
 CAPEX 
 665 
 505 
 345 
 185 
 26 
 (134) 
 (294) 
 
 Discount rate 
 231 
 215 
 200 
 185 
 172 
 160 
 148 
A study was also developed to quantify the sensitivity of the
NPV to variations in the silver price using similar methodology to the
sensitivity analysis presented above. 
The sensitivity analysis for the NPV was performed using
variations in OPEX, CAPEX, discount rate, copper and silver prices. Simulations
were conducted treating the variables independently. Ten percent increments were
adopted for a total variation of ± 30%. Considering the silver scenario, the NPV
is 277M USD at a discount rate of 8.0% . The silver content increased the NPV by
33%. 
Results of the sensitivity analysis suggest significant
sensitivity to variation in copper prices and OPEX. According to the analysis, a
decrease in the copper price of more than 17% or an increase in the OPEX of more
than 17% could result in a negative cash flow and, therefore, make the project
not feasible. 
The impact of CAPEX and silver price variations is not
significant compared to variations in copper price and OPEX. 
Table 3.8 
NPV sensitivity analysis - MUSD - including silver content

 
 Parameter/Variation 
 -30% 
 -20% 
 -10% 
 0% 
 +10% 
 +20% 
 +30% 
 
 Copper Price 
 (271) 
 (55) 
 122 
 277 
 426 
 568 
 703 
 
 Silver Price 
 245 
 256 
 267 
 277 
 289 
 298 
 308 
 
 OPEX 
 756 
 597 
 437 
 277 
 117 
 (43) 
 (203) 
 
 CAPEX 
 328 
 311 
 294 
 277 
 260 
 243 
 226 
 
 Discount rate 
 334 
 314 
 295 
 277 
 260 
 245 
 230 
183 

 
184