EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO ACQUIRES GOLD STREAM ON AQUILA’S BACK FORTY
PROJECT IN MICHIGAN, USA 
(Montréal, November 9, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(the “Company” or “Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to announce that its
wholly-owned subsidiary, Osisko Bermuda Limited (“OBL”) has agreed to acquire a
gold stream (“Gold Stream”) with reference to the future gold produced from the
Back Forty property (“Back Forty” or the “Project”) located in Michigan, USA
from Aquila Resources Inc. (“Aquila”) (AQA: TSX). OBL will make a staged upfront
cash deposit to Aquila of up to US$55 million for the Gold Stream, and will make
ongoing payments equal to 30% of the spot price of gold, to a maximum of US$600
per ounce. 
Back Forty is a development-stage project located in Michigan’s
Upper Peninsula. The deposit is a zinc and gold-rich volcanogenic massive
sulfide (VMS) deposit located along the mineral-rich Penokean Volcanic Belt.
Over the past 10 years, Aquila and various joint venture partners have invested
more than $75 million exploring and advancing Back Forty. Aquila completed a
preliminary economic assessment for the Project in 2014 that demonstrated
positive economics, and estimated total payable gold production of 532,000
ounces, including 145,000 ounces in the first year. Aquila is currently
completing a feasibility study for the Project, which is expected to be released
in early 2018. 
In addition to the Gold Stream, OBL has agreed to purchase
units in the amount of US$10 million as part of a concurrent private placement
with Aquila. 
OBL currently owns a 75% stream on all silver produced on the
Project (the “Silver Stream”). The Silver Stream was acquired in July 2017
through the acquisition of the Orion Mine Finance portfolio. 
The Gold and Silver Streams on Back Forty provide Osisko with
exposure to: 

 
 
 • 
 a significant precious metals streaming
 interest on an advanced North American project; 
 
 
 • 
 mid-term cash flow from a premier jurisdiction;
 
 
 
 • 
 upside potential through further exploration of
 the Project; and 
 
 
 • 
 maintains the Company’s focus on low-risk
 jurisdictions. 
The Gold Stream Purchase 
Pursuant to a gold purchase agreement to be entered into by OBL
and Aquila, OBL will purchase a gold stream equivalent to 18.5% of the refined
gold from the Project until 105,000 ounces of gold have been delivered (the
“Threshold Stream”), and 9.25% of the refined gold for the remaining
life-of-mine (the “Tail Stream”). Payable gold under the Stream will be subject
to minimum payability rates based on the product produced. As consideration for
the Gold Stream, OBL will pay to Aquila a staged upfront cash deposit of up to
US$55 million (the “Deposit”) plus ongoing payments equal to 30% of the spot
price of gold on the day of delivery, to a maximum of US$600 per ounce. 

The Deposit will be paid in four installments, as follows: 

 
 
 1. 
 
 US$7.5 million payable on closing of the Gold
 Stream;
 
 
 2. 
 
 US$7.5 million payable upon receipt by Aquila of all
 material permits required for the development and operation of the
 Project, and receipt of a positive feasibility study;
 
 
 3. 
 
 US$10 million payable following a positive construction
 decision for the Property; and
 
 
 4. 
 
 US$30 million payable upon the first drawdown of an
 appropriate project debt finance facility (the “Fourth Deposit”), subject
 to the CoC Provision (as defined herein).
In the event of a change of control of Aquila prior to the
advancement of the Fourth Deposit, the person or entity acquiring control over
the Project may elect to forego the Fourth Deposit, in which case the Threshold
Stream and Tail Stream will reduce to 9.5% and 4.75%, respectively (the “CoC
Provision”). All other terms and conditions of the Gold Stream will remain
unchanged.
The Gold Stream will be secured by a first priority lien on the
Project and all assets of Aquila. The security for the Gold Stream will rank
pari passu with the security for the Silver Stream. 
The Private Placement 
As part of the transaction, OBL has agreed to purchase US$10
million of units in Aquila at a price of C$0.26 per unit (the “Equity
Subscription”). Each unit will be comprised of one common share and one quarter
of one common share purchase warrant, with each full warrant entitling OBL to
purchase one common share of Aquila for C$0.34 for a period of 42 months
following closing of the Equity Subscription. On closing of the Equity
Subscription, OBL is expected to own approximately 14.5% of Aquila’s issued and
outstanding common shares (“Aquila Common Shares”). So long as OBL continues to
hold more than 10% of the Aquila Common Shares, OBL will have the right to
nominate one representative to Aquila's board of directors and the right to
participate in any future equity or equity-linked offerings to maintain its pro
rata ownership interest. Joseph de la Plante, current Vice President, Corporate
Development of Osisko, will be appointed to the board of Aquila immediately upon
close. 
All securities issued to OBL under the private placement will
be subject to a four-month hold period from the date of issuance of the
securities, pursuant to applicable securities legislation. 
Closing of the Gold Stream and Equity Subscription is expected
to be on or around November 10, 2017 and is subject to regulatory approvals.

About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams
and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone
assets, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine, which is the
largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held
resource companies, including a 15.6% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., a 12.8%
interest in Osisko Metals Incorporated, a 13.3% interest in Falco Resources Ltd.
and a 32.8% interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de
Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 

For further information please contact, please contact
Osisko Gold Royalties: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com

Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward- looking statements” within the meaning of
applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. These forward looking statements,
by their nature, require Osisko to make certain assumptions and necessarily
involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward
looking statements. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of
performance. These forward looking statements, may involve, but are not limited
to the anticipated benefits deriving from the investment and transaction between
OBL and Aquila, the completion date of Back Forty’s feasibility study, the
anticipated closing date on the transaction and investment and obtaining
regulatory approval. Words such as “may”, “will”, “would”, “could”, “expect”,
“believe”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”, “continue”, or the
negative or comparable terminology, as well as terms usually used in the future
and the conditional, are intended to identify forward looking statements.
Information contained in forward looking statements is based upon certain
material assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making a
forecast or projection, including management’s perceptions of historical trends,
current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other
considerations that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. Osisko
considers its assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently
available, but cautions the reader that their assumptions regarding future
events, many of which are beyond the control of Osisko, may ultimately prove to
be incorrect since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect
Osisko and its business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
The forward looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations
as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise, other than as required by law.