EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 
OSISKO CLOSES EXPLORATION EARN-IN AGREEMENT 
(Montreal, October 5, 2016) Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd (OR:TSX and OR:NYSE) ("Osisko Royalties" or the "Corporation") is
pleased to announce that it has finalized its earn-in agreement transaction with
Osisko Mining Inc. (“Osisko Mining”), which was announced on August 16, 2016.
Under the terms of the agreement, Osisko Mining may earn a 100% interest in
Osisko Royalties’ interest in 28 exploration properties located in the James Bay
area and Labrador Trough (the “Properties”) upon completing the total investment
of $32 million over a 7-year period; Osisko Mining will earn a 50% interest upon
completing expenditures totaling $19.2 million. Osisko Royalties retained an
escalating net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty ranging from 1.5% to a maximum
of 3.5% on precious metals and a 2% NSR royalty on other metals and minerals
produced from the Properties. Additionally, new properties acquired by Osisko
Mining in the designated area during a 7-year term will be subject to a royalty
agreement in favour of Osisko Royalties with similar terms. Osisko Royalties
undertakes not to participate in any exploration activity and is bound not to
compete with Osisko Mining in areas covered by the agreement, except for the
continuation of activities on its Coulon copper-zinc project held by Osisko
Royalties and other Québec institutional shareholders and on four other
exploration properties. 
As part of the transaction, Osisko Mining is hiring all of the
Osisko Royalties Québec based exploration team (former Virginia Mines
employees). 
Sean Roosen, Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer of Osisko Royalties, stated: “We are streamlining our business
to focus on royalties and the mining incubation model, while continuing to
support our growth through exploration programs carried out by our investee
corporations.” 
Due to the fact that Osisko Mining is a related party of Osisko
Royalties this transaction is a "related party transaction" as set out in
Regulation 61-101 respecting Protection of Minority Security Holders in Special
Transactions ("Regulation 61-101"). Osisko Royalties has relied on the exemption
from the valuation requirements of Regulation 61-101 contained in n section
5.5(a) and from minority approval requirements under section 5.7(a) , because
the fair market value off the subject matter of, and the consideration for, the
transaction, does not exceed 25% of the market capitalization of Osisko
Royalties. The entry into of the transaction has been approved by the directors
of Osisko Royalties, other than those with an interest in Osisko Mining. 
Exercise of Option 
The Corporation has also exercised its option to acquire a 1%
NSR royalty on Osisko Mining‘s Windfall and Urban Barry properties for $5
million. Osisko Mining is s currently executing a 150,000 meter program on the
Windfall Project and surrounding are ea. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties is an intermediate precious metal royalty
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine (Canada) and a 2.0 -3.5% NSR royalty on the
Éléonore Mine (Canada). It maintains a strong financial position with cash
resources of $425 million at June 30 2016 and has distributed dividends to its
shareholders during the past seven consecutive quarters. 
1 

Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
Forward-Looking Statements 
This press release contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements, by their nature, require the Corporation to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Words such as “may”,
“will”, “would”, “could”, “expect”, “believe”, “plan”, “anticipate”, “intend”,
“estimate”, “continue”, or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as
terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements including the fact that the Corporation may obtain
new royalties on new properties acquired by Osisko Mining. Information contained
in forward-looking statements is based upon certain material assumptions that
were applied in drawing a conclusion or making a forecast or projection,
including the Corporation’s understanding that Osisko Mining will pursue
exploration activities in the James Bay and Labrador Through areas. The
Corporation considers its assumptions to be reasonable based on information
currently available, but cautions the reader that its assumptions regarding
future events, many of which are beyond the control of the Corporation, may
ultimately prove to be incorrect since they are subject to risks and
uncertainties that affect the Corporation and its business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, refer to the Corporation’s most recent Annual information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR. The forward-looking information set forth herein
reflects the Corporation’s expectations as at the date of this press release and
is subject to change after such date. The Corporation disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 

 
 
 
 For further information please contact Osisko Gold
 Royalties Ltd: 
 
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
2