EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

OSISKO RENEWS NORMAL COURSE ISSUER BID 
(Montréal, December 4, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(OR:TSX & NYSE) (the "Corporation" or "Osisko") today
announces its intention to renew its normal course issuer bid to purchase for
cancellation, from time to time over a 12-month period, common shares of the
Corporation ("Common Shares") listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange
("TSX") in an aggregate amount of up to 10% of the public float of the
Corporation (the "NCIB Program"). The commencement of the NCIB Program is
subject to TSX approval. 
Any repurchases under the NCIB Program will be made in Canada
through the facilities of the TSX or alternative trading platforms or by such
other means permitted by the TSX. Osisko will pay the prevailing market price at
the time of purchase. The actual number of Common Shares repurchased under the
NCIB Program and the timing of such repurchases will be at Osisko's discretion
and shall be subject to the limitations set out in the TSX Company Manual. 
The board of directors of Osisko believes that the underlying
value of the Corporation may not be reflected in the market price of the Common
Shares from time to time and that, accordingly, the purchase of Common Shares
will increase the proportionate interest in the Corporation of, and be
advantageous to, all remaining shareholders of the Corporation. 
As of December 1, 2017, there were 157,024,383 Common Shares
issued and outstanding, and the Corporation had a public float of 105,674,419
Common Shares. 
The Corporation purchased 150,000 Common Shares at an average
price of $12.15 per Common Share under its prior normal course issuer bid
program, which ended on October 23, 2017. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams
and precious metal offtakes. Osisko's portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone
assets, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine, which is the
largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held
resource companies, including a 15.6% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., a 12.8%
interest in Osisko Metals Incorporated, a 13.3% interest in Falco Resources Ltd.
and a 32.8% interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
Osisko's head office is located at 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de
Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
Forward-looking statements 
This press release contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements, by their nature, require the Corporation to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Words such as "may",
"will", "would", "could", "expect", "believe", "plan", "anticipate", "intend",
"estimate", "continue", or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as
terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements including the fact that the Corporation "expects",
"plans", "anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates", "projects",
"potential", "scheduled" and similar expressions or variations (Including
negative variations), or that events or conditions "will", "would", "may",
"could" or "should" occur including, without limitation, statements about the
board of directors of Osisko's belief that the NCIB Program is advantageous to
shareholders and that underlying value of the Corporation may not be reflected
in the market price of the Common Shares, the Corporation's intentions regarding
the NCIB Program and whether the Corporation will receive the requisite
acceptance of the TSX in respect of the NCIB Program. 

Although Osisko believes the expectations expressed in such
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and are not
guarantees of future performance and actual results may accordingly differ
materially from those in forward looking statements. Factors that could cause
the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements
include, without limitation: fluctuations in the prices of the commodities that
drive royalties, streams and offtakes held by Osisko; fluctuations in the value
of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar; regulatory changes by
national and local government, including corporate law, permitting and licensing
regimes and taxation policies; continued availability of capital and financing
and general economic, market or business conditions; business opportunities that
become available to, or are pursued by Osisko; the impossibility to acquire
royalties and to fund precious metal streams; other uninsured risks. The forward
looking statements contained in this press release are based upon assumptions
management believes to be reasonable, including, without limitation: the ongoing
operation of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest by
the owners or operators of such properties in a manner consistent with past
practice; the accuracy of public statements and disclosures made by the owners
or operators of such underlying properties; no material adverse change in the
market price of the commodities that underlie the asset portfolio; no adverse
development in respect of any significant property in which Osisko holds a
royalty or other interest and the absence of any other factors that could cause
actions, events or results to differ from those anticipated, estimated or
intended. For additional information with respect to these and other factors and
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Annual
Information Form of the Corporation, which is filed with (i) the securities
regulatory authorities in Canada and available electronically under Osisko's
issuer profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com, and (ii) the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and available electronically under Osisko's issuer profile
on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. The
forward- looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko's
expectations as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after
such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
For further information, please contact Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development
 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com