EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO INCREASES CREDIT FACILITY TO $350 MILLION 
Option to Increase to $450 Million 
(Montréal, November 14, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(the “Company” or “Osisko”) (OR: TSX & NYSE) is pleased to announce that it
has amended its revolving credit facility (the “Facility”), increasing the
amount from $150 million to $350 million, with an additional uncommitted
accordion of up to $100 million, for a total availability of up to $450 million.
The Facility is to be used for general corporate purposes and investments in the
mineral industry, including the acquisition of royalties, streams and other
interests. 
National Bank of Canada continues to act as administrative
agent and as lender, and the syndicate of financial institutions includes Bank
of Montreal, The Bank of Nova Scotia, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Royal
Bank of Canada, The Toronto-Dominion Bank and Export Development Canada.
National Bank Financial Inc. acted as sole Lead Arranger and Bookrunner, and
Bank of Montreal as Documentation Agent. 
Sean Roosen, Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Osisko,
noted: “We are very pleased to have National Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal
as strong financial partners and we welcome our new lenders, as we pursue our
strategic plan to provide strong returns to our shareholders and stakeholders.
The pipeline of projects from our accelerator model and our near-term cash
flowing assets provide our Company with a unique growth profile within the
royalty sector.” 
Elif Lévesque, Vice President Finance and Chief Financial
Officer of Osisko, noted: “The new Facility combined with our cash position
(including our recently completed $300 million 5-year convertible debentures)
provides liquidity of up to $700 million to fund growth opportunities.” 
The Facility is secured by the Company’s assets and has an
initial term of four years. About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 131 royalties, streams
and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone
assets, including a 5% net smelter return royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine,
the largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held
resource companies, including a 15.6% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., 12.8% in
Osisko Metals Inc., 13.3% in Falco Resources Ltd. and 32.8% in Barkerville Gold
Mines Ltd. 
Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
For further information please contact, please contact
Osisko Gold Royalties: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com

 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
1

Forward-looking Statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed "forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than
statements of historical fact, that address future events, developments or
performance that Osisko expects to occur including management’s expectations
regarding Osisko’s growth, realization of business prospects and opportunities
and requirements for additional capital are forward looking statements. Forward
looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and are
generally, but not always, identified by the words "expects", "plans",
"anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates", "projects", "potential",
"scheduled" and similar expressions or variations (including negative
variations), or that events or conditions "will", "would", "may", "could" or
"should" occur including, without limitation, the performance of the assets of
Osisko, the satisfaction of all conditions precedent for the drawdown on the
Facility, the realization of the anticipated benefits of the Facility including
the acquisition of royalties, stream or other interest. Although Osisko believes
the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on
reasonable assumptions, such statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance and
actual results may accordingly differ materially from those in forward looking
statements. Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially
from those in forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
fluctuations in the prices of the commodities that drive royalties held by
Osisko ; fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S.
dollar; regulatory changes in national and local government, including
permitting and licensing regimes and taxation policies; regulations and
political or economic developments in any of the countries where properties in
which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest are located or through
which they are held; risks related to the operators of the properties in which
Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interests, influence of macroeconomic
developments; business opportunities that become available to, or are pursued by
Osisko; continued availability of capital and financing and general economic,
market or business conditions; litigation; title, permit or license disputes
related to interests on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty,
stream or other interest; development, permitting, infrastructure, operating or
technical difficulties on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty,
stream or other interest; rate and timing of production differences from mineral
resource estimates or production forecasts by operators of properties in which
Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest; risks and hazards associated
with the business of exploring, development and mining on any of the properties
in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest, including, but not
limited to unusual or unexpected geological and metallurgical conditions, slope
failures or cave-ins, flooding and other natural disasters or civil unrest or
other uninsured risks. The forward looking statements contained in this press
release are based upon assumptions management believes to be reasonable,
including, without limitation: the ongoing operation of the properties in which
Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest by the owners or operators of
such properties in a manner consistent with past practice; the accuracy of
public statements and disclosures made by the owners or operators of such
underlying properties; no material adverse change in the market price of the
commodities that underlie the asset portfolio; no adverse development in respect
of any significant property in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other
interest; the accuracy of publicly disclosed expectations for the development of
underlying properties that are not yet in production; and the absence of any
other factors that could cause actions, events or results to differ from those
anticipated, estimated or intended. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko's issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking information set
forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations as at the date of this press release
and is subject to change after such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 
2