EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd. - Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 
OSISKO ANNOUNCES NORMAL COURSE ISSUER BID 
(Montreal, October 12, 2016) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(OR:TSX) ("Osisko" or the "Corporation") today announces its intention to
commence a normal course issuer bid to purchase for cancellation, from time to
time, up to 5% of the issued and outstanding common shares of the Corporation
("Common Shares") listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange ("TSX") over a 12-month
period (the "NCIB Program"). The commencement of the Program is subject to TSX
approval. 
Any repurchases under the NCIB Program will be made in Canada
through the facilities of the TSX or alternative trading platforms or by such
other means permitted by the TSX. Osisko will pay the prevailing market price at
the time of purchase. The actual number of Common Shares repurchased under the
NCIB Program and the timing of such repurchases will be at Osisko's discretion
and shall be subject to the limitations set out in the TSX Company Manual. 
The board of directors of Osisko believes that the underlying
value of the Corporation may not be reflected in the market price of the Common
Shares from time to time and that, accordingly, the purchase of Common Shares
will increase the proportionate interest in the Corporation of, and be
advantageous to, all remaining shareholders of the Corporation. 
As of October 11, 2016, there were 106,604,347 Common Shares
issued and outstanding. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties is an intermediate precious metal royalty
company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014. It holds
over 50 royalties, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine
(Canada) and a 2.0 -3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada). It maintains
a strong financial position with cash resources of $425 million at June 30 2016
and has distributed dividends to its shareholders during the past seven
consecutive quarters. 
Osisko's head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
Forward-Looking Statements 
This press release contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements, by their nature, require the Corporation to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Words such as "may",
"will", "would", "could", "expect", "believe", "plan", "anticipate", "intend",
"estimate", "continue", or the negative or comparable terminology, as well as
terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to identify
forward-looking statements including the fact that the Corporation "expects",
"plans", "anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates", "projects",
"potential", "scheduled" and similar expressions or variations (Including
negative variations), or that events or conditions "will", "would", "may",
"could" or "should" occur including, without limitation, statements about the
board of directors of Osisko's belief that the NCIB Program is advantageous to
shareholders and that underlying value of the Corporation may not be reflected
in the market price of the Common Shares, the Corporation's intentions regarding
the NCIB Program and whether the Corporation will receive the requisite
acceptance of the TSX in respect of the NCIB Program. Although Osisko believes
the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on
reasonable assumptions, such statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance and
actual results may accordingly differ materially from those in forward looking
statements. Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially
from those in forward-looking statements include, without limitation:
fluctuations in the prices of the commodities that drive royalties held by
Osisko (gold and silver); fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar
relative to the U.S. dollar; regulatory changes by national and local
government, including corporate law, permitting and licensing regimes and taxation policies;
continued availability of capital and financing and general economic, market or
business conditions; business opportunities that become available to, or are
pursued by Osisko; the impossibility to acquire royalties and to fund precious
metal streams; other uninsured risks. The forward looking statements contained
in this press release are based upon assumptions management believes to be
reasonable, including, without limitation: the ongoing operation of the
properties in which Osisko holds a royalty or other interest by the owners or
operators of such properties in a manner consistent with past practice; the
accuracy of public statements and disclosures made by the owners or operators of
such underlying properties; no material adverse change in the market price of
the commodities that underlie the asset portfolio; no adverse development in
respect of any significant property in which Osisko holds a royalty or other
interest and the absence of any other factors that could cause actions, events
or results to differ from those anticipated, estimated or intended. 
1 

For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, refer to the Corporation's most recent Annual information Form
filed on SEDAR and EDGAR. The forward-looking information set forth herein
reflects the Corporation's expectations as at the date of this press release and
is subject to change after such date. The Corporation disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 
 
 

 
 
 
 For further information please contact Osisko Gold
 Royalties Ltd: 
 
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
2