EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
EARLY WARNING RELEASE 
(Montréal, January 21, 2019) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(TSX & NYSE:OR) ("Osisko") announces that it has subscribed for and received
from Barksdale Capital Corp. (TSXV:BRO) (“Barksdale”) 5,833,333 common shares
(the “Common Shares”) at a price of $0.60 per Common Share, for an aggregate
subscription price of $3,500,000 pursuant to a non-brokered private placement
purchase agreement (the “Transaction”).
Immediately prior to the closing of the Transaction, Osisko did
not have beneficial ownership of, or control and direction over, any Common
Shares of Barksdale. Immediately following the closing of the Transaction,
Osisko owns, beneficial ownership of, or control and direction over 5,833,333
Common Shares, representing approximately 15.2% of the Common Shares then be
issued and outstanding. 
Osisko acquired the Common Shares described in this press
release for investment purposes and in accordance with applicable securities
laws, Osisko may, from time to time and at any time, acquire additional Common
Shares and/or other equity, debt or other securities or instruments
(collectively, “Securities”) of Barksdale in the open market or otherwise, and
reserves the right to dispose of any or all of its Securities in the open market
or otherwise at any time and from time to time, and to engage in similar
transactions with respect to the Securities, the whole depending on market
conditions, the business and prospects of Barksdale and other relevant
factors.
A copy of the early warning report to be filed by Osisko in
connection with the Transaction described above will be available on SEDAR under
Barksdale’s profile. This news release is issued under the early warning
provisions of the Canadian securities legislation. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company that holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130
royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes. Osisko’s portfolio is anchored
by its 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine, which is the largest gold
mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource
companies, including a 16.7% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., a 32.3% interest in
Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd., a 15.5% interest in Victoria Gold Corp., a 17.8%
interest in Falco Resources Ltd and an 10.6% interest in Osisko Metals
Incorporated. 
Osisko is incorporated under the laws of the Province of
Québec, with its head office located at 1100 avenue des Canadiens-de-Montréal,
Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. 
For further information, please contact Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd: 
Joseph de la Plante Vice President, Corporate Development
Tel. (514) 940-0670 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com