EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd .: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

INVESTISSEMENT QUÉBEC INVESTS C$16 MILLION IN OSISKO GOLD
ROYALTIES 
(Montréal, October 26, 2017) Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd
(the "Company" or "Osisko") (TSX & NYSE: OR) is pleased to
announce that, in connection with its previously announced C$284 million
offering (the “Offering”) of convertible senior unsecured debentures (the
“Debentures“) which consists of a public offering and a private
placement, the underwriters have exercised their option to increase the size of
the private placement of Debentures (the “Private Offering”) by C$16
million, for total gross proceeds from the Offering of C$300 million. 
As a result, Osisko is pleased to announce that Ressources
Québec inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Investissement Québec, has committed
to purchase C$16 million of Debentures through the Private Offering on the same
terms and conditions as the C$184 million public offering of Debentures. 
The Debentures will bear interest at a rate of 4.00% per annum,
payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31 each year, commencing on June
30, 2018. The Debentures will be convertible at the holder’s option into Osisko
common shares at a conversion price of C$22.89 per common share (representing a
conversion premium of approximately 40% to the reference price of C$16.35 and a
conversion rate of 43.6872 Osisko common shares per C$1,000 principal amount of
debentures). The Debentures will mature on December 31, 2022 and may be redeemed
by Osisko, in certain circumstances, on or after December 31, 2020. 
The net proceeds from the Offering will be used to fund the
acquisition of precious metal royalties and streams, working capital, and
general corporate purposes. 
The securities to be offered have not been and will not be
registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold
in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the
registration requirements of such Act. This news release shall not constitute an
offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities in any
jurisdiction. 
About Investissement Québec 
Investissement Québec's mission is to foster the growth of
investment in Québec, thereby contributing to economic development and job
creation in every region. The Corporation offers businesses a full range of
financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investments, to
support them at all stages of their development. It is also responsible for
administering tax measures and prospecting for foreign investment. 
About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Osisko holds a North American focused portfolio of over 130 royalties, streams
and precious metal offtakes. Osisko's portfolio is anchored by five cornerstone
assets, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine, which is the
largest gold mine in Canada. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held
resource companies, including a 15.6% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., a 12.8%
interest in Osisko Metals Incorporated, a 13.3% interest in Falco Resources Ltd.
and a 32.8% interest in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
1

Osisko's head office is located at 1100 Avenue des Canadiens-de
Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2 
Forward-looking statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. These
forward-looking statements, by their nature, require Osisko to
make certain assumptions and necessarily involve known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
These forward-looking statements, may involve, but are not limited
to, comments with respect to the directors and officers of Osisko. Words such as
“may”, “will”, “would”, “could”, “expect”, “believe”, “plan”, “anticipate”,
“intend”, “estimate”, “continue”, or the negative or comparable terminology, as
well as terms usually used in the future and the conditional, are intended to
identify forward-looking statements. Information contained in
forward-looking statements is based upon certain material
assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making a forecast or
projection, including management’s perceptions of historical trends, current
conditions and expected future developments, as well as other considerations
that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. Osisko considers its
assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available, but
cautions the reader that their assumptions regarding future events, many of
which are beyond the control of Osisko, may ultimately prove to be incorrect
since they are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect Osisko and its
business. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements
made in this press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most
recent Annual Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian
securities commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer
profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile
on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. The
forward- looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s
expectations as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after
such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
For further information, please contact Osisko Gold
Royalties Ltd.: 

 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com

 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
2