EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 
OSISKO ACQUIRES ORION MINE FINANCE ROYALTY PORTFOLIO
Transformational Transaction Creates Leading World Class Growth
Royalty Company Doubles Near-Term Cash Flow and Triples Cash
Flowing AssetsLa Caisse and Fonds Invest C$200 and C$75
Million in Osisko, Respectively 
Montréal, Québec, June 5, 2017 – Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (TSX
& NYSE: OR) (“Osisko” or the “Company”) is pleased to announce that it has
entered into a definitive agreement with Orion Mine Finance Group (“Orion”) to
acquire a high-quality precious metals portfolio of assets consisting of 74
royalties, streams and precious metal offtakes for total consideration of
C$1.125 billion (the “Purchase Price”), creating a growth-oriented, world class
and gold-focused royalty and streaming company (the "Transaction"). 
The combination of Osisko and Orion’s portfolios will result in
the Company holding a total of 131 royalties and streams, including 16
revenue-generating assets. The Company’s cornerstone asset remains the 5% net
smelter return (“NSR) royalty on the world class and long-life Canadian Malartic
gold mine (Canada’s largest producing gold mine) and its 2 to 3.5% NSR royalty
on the world class Éléonore gold mine. Through the Transaction, the Company
gains a 9.6% diamond stream on the Renard diamond mine and a 4% gold and silver
stream on the Brucejack gold and silver mine, all of which are new high-quality
mines in Canada, in addition to a 100% silver stream on the substantial Mantos
Blancos copper mine in Chile. 
The Purchase Price paid to Orion will consist of: C$675 million
in cash consideration plus C$450 million in Osisko common shares. As part of the
Transaction, the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (“la Caisse”) and the
Fonds de solidarité FTQ (“Fonds”) will be subscribing for C$200 and C$75 million
in common shares of Osisko, respectively, as part of a concurrent private
placement (“Private Placement”) to fund a portion of the cash consideration and
support the Transaction. Additionally, Osisko will draw C$150 million under its
revolving credit facility with the National Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal,
and C$250 million will be funded from Osisko’s current cash reserves. 
Transaction Highlights 

 
 • 
 
 Immediately Accretive to Cash Flow: The
 Transaction, which increases shares outstanding by less than 50%, doubles
 Osisko’s near-term cash flow and more than triples Osisko’s cash flowing
 assets from 5 to 16. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Industry Leading Production and Cash Flow Growth:
 The Transaction provides Osisko with an unparalleled growth pipeline
 with expected forecasted production of over 100,000 gold equivalent ounces
 (“GEO”) in 2018 growing to over 140,000 GEOs by 2023 and pro forma cash
 flow growth of 10% per annum from 2017 to 2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Addition of Three Cornerstone Assets: Stream
 assets from the Renard, Mantos Blancos and Brucejack mines complement the
 Company’s existing cornerstone royalties on the world class Canadian
 Malartic and Éléonore mines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Maintains Precious Metals Focus: Osisko’s pro
 forma net present value (“NPV”) and cash flow to be over 90% from precious
 metal assets. 
1 

 
 • 
 
 Americas Focused Portfolio: Over 80% of combined
 cash flow to come from North America and over 90% of combined cash flow to
 come from the Americas. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Expands and Diversifies Portfolio: Adds 74 assets,
 including 61 royalties, 7 precious metal offtakes and 6 streams,
 diversifies Osisko’s existing cash flowing asset base and enhances the
 Company’s development and exploration pipeline. 
Sean Roosen, Chair and CEO of Osisko, commented: “Since our
creation three years ago, we have been working towards a transformational
transaction for Osisko. We are delighted to announce our agreement with Orion
Mine Finance today, which will position Osisko as the leading growth story among
senior precious metal royalty companies. This transaction adds wide diversity to
our portfolio which already holds the world class Canadian Malartic and Éléonore
mine royalties as anchor assets, but will now include significant new assets
including the Renard diamond stream in Québec, Canada, a gold and silver stream
on the recently commissioned high-grade Brucejack mine in British Columbia,
Canada and a silver stream on the substantial Mantos Blancos mine in Chile.
Combining these tremendous assets from Orion Mine Finance together with Osisko’s
existing portfolio will set the stage for the Company to earn over 140,000 GEOs
annually by 2023, without compromising its focus on gold and precious metals
from properties located principally in North America.” 
Oskar Lewnowski, Founder and Chief Investment Officer of Orion,
added: “As one of the largest investors dedicated to the mining industry, I am
proud to say Orion has been able to build a uniquely top-tier, diversified
royalty portfolio with a stellar cash flow growth profile. We are confident
Osisko’s management team has the expertise to ensure that, when combined, our
complementary asset bases ultimately deliver transformational results for
shareholders and we are excited to participate in that upside.” 
“With this additional investment, la Caisse is enabling Osisko,
whose well known and experienced team has proven itself on the Canadian market,
to expand its asset portfolio and better position itself on global markets,”
said Christian Dubé, Executive Vice-President, Québec at Caisse de dépôt et
placement du Québec. “This transaction is part of our commitment to remain a key
player in the mining sector in Québec, supporting businesses at all stages in
order to foster the development of tomorrow’s leading companies.” 
Janie Béïque, Senior Vice-President, Natural Resources,
Industries, Entertainment and Consumer Goods, of the Fonds, said, “Having first
invested in the Osisko team in its early startup phase in 1999 when its market
capitalization was C$1 million, the Fonds de solidarité FTQ is proud to reaffirm
its commitment to supporting the Company’s growth. Today’s acquisition of high
quality assets from Orion will further consolidate Osisko’s position as a Québec
based world class royalty company.” 
Acquired Assets 

 
 • 
 
 Renard Diamond Stream (“Renard Stream”): Renard is
 a rare, new producing diamond mine located in Québec, Canada operated by
 Stornoway Diamond Corporation. The mine is currently ramping-up and is
 expected to produce on average 1.6 million carats per annum over a 14-year
 mine life, with potential from significant upside from the recovery of
 large diamonds. Under the Renard Stream agreement, Osisko will receive
 9.6% of diamond production and will pay an ongoing transfer price of
 US$50/carat. La Caisse currently owns a separate 4% diamond stream on the
 Renard mine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Brucejack Gold and Silver Stream (“Brucejack Stream”):
 Brucejack is a world class high-grade gold mine located in British
 Columbia, Canada operated by Pretium Resources Inc. (“Pretium”). The mine
 is currently in the commissioning phase and is expected to achieve
 commercial production in 2017. Under the Brucejack Stream agreement,
Osisko will receive 4% of gold and silver production until 7.067 million ounces
of gold and 26.297 million ounces of silver have been produced from the mine,
subject to a US$400/oz and US$4.00/oz ongoing transfer payment for gold and
silver, respectively. The Brucejack Stream agreement is subject to certain
buyback rights held by Pretium which could result in the stream being
repurchased by Pretium on December 31, 2018 and other specific dates. 
2 

 
 • 
 
 Mantos Blancos Silver Stream (“Mantos Stream”):
 Mantos Blancos is a large, producing copper mine located in
 Antofagasta, Chile operated by Mantos Copper S.A. (a private mining
 company). The mine has a long history of operations (most recently
 developed and operated by Anglo American) and is expected to produce an
 average of 600,000 ounces of payable silver over 2017- 2020 and an average
 of 1 million ounces of silver annually over the remainder of its estimated
 13- year mine life. Under the Mantos Stream agreement, Osisko will receive
 100% of payable silver from Mantos Blancos until 19.3 million ounces of
 payable silver have been produced at the mine, after which the stream
 percentage will be 30% of payable silver. Osisko will pay an ongoing
 transfer payment of 25% of the prevailing spot price of silver.
 
A detailed list of the producing and most significant
pre-production assets acquired from Orion is provided below: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OPERATOR 
 INTEREST 
 STAGE 
 COUNTRY

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Streams 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Renard 
 Stornoway 
 9.6% Diamond Stream 
 Production 
 Canada 
 
 Mantos 
 Mantos Copper (Private) 
 100% Ag Stream 
 Production 
 Chile 
 
 Brucejack 
 Pretium 
 4% Au, 4% Ag Streams 
 Commissioning 
 Canada 
 
 Amulsar 
 Lydian 
 4.22% Au, 62.5% Ag Stream 
 Construction 
 Armenia 
 
 SASA 
 Lynx Resources (Private) 
 100% Ag Stream 
 Production 
 Macedonia 
 
 Back
 Forty 
 Aquila
 Resources 
 75% Ag
 Stream 
 Development 
 USA
 
 
 Royalties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seabee 
 Silver Standard 
 3% Au NSR 
 Production 
 Canada 
 
 Bald Mountain 
 Kinross 
 1-4% Au GSR 
 Production 
 USA 
 
 Kwale 
 Base Resources 
 1.5% Titanium GRR 
 Production 
 Kenya 
 
 Brauna 
 Lipari Mineracao 
 1% Diamond GRR 
 Production 
 Brazil 
 
 Casino 
 Western Copper and Gold 
 2.75% Au-Cu-Mo NSR 
 Development 
 Canada 
 
 Ollachea 
 Minera IRL 
 1% Au NSR 
 Development 
 Peru 
 
 
 Spring Valley 
 Waterton (Private) 
 0.5%
 Au NSR 
 Development 
 USA
 
 
 Offtakes

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Brucejack 
 Pretium 
 50% Au Offtake 
 Commissioning 
 Canada 
 
 Amulsar 
 Lydian 
 81.9% Au Offtake 
 Construction 
 Armenia 
 
 Nimbus 
 MacPhersons Resources 
 100% Au-Ag Offtake 
 Development 
 Australia 
 
 Parral 
 GoGold Resources 
 100% Au-Ag Offtake 
 Production 
 Mexico 
 
 San Ramon 
 Red Eagle Mining 
 51% Au Offtake 
 Production 
 Colombia 
 
 Matilda 
 Blackham Resources 
 55% Au Offtake 
 Production 
 Australia 
 
 
 Yenipazar 
 Aldridge Minerals 
 50% Au
 Offtake 
 Development 
 Turkey
 
 
 Additional 54 royalties in long-term development and
 exploration stage 
 
 
 
 
3 

Transaction Summary 
Under the proposed Transaction, Osisko has agreed to acquire 61
royalties, 7 precious metal offtakes, and 6 streams from Orion for a total
consideration of C$1.125 billion, consisting of C$675 million in cash (“Cash
Consideration”) and of 30,906,594 million common shares of Osisko to be issued
to Orion (“Orion Shares”) at a price of C$14.56 per share, such Orion Shares
having an aggregate value of C$450 million (“Share Consideration”). 
As part of the Transaction, Osisko will complete a concurrent
Private Placement of Osisko common shares to be issued to la Caisse (C$200
million) and Fonds (C$75 million) (“Private Placement Shares”) at a price of
C$14.56 per share for aggregate proceeds of C$275 million. The Private Placement
is subject to a 7% capital commitment payment payable partially in shares (2%)
and in cash. The Private Placement will serve to partially fund the Cash
Consideration, with the remainder of the Cash Consideration to be funded through
the drawdown of C$150 million from Osisko’s existing revolving credit facility
with the National Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal, and C$250 million from
Osisko’s existing cash reserves. 

 
 Consideration Summary 
 
 Total Consideration, consisting of: 
 C$1,125 million 
 
 - 
 Share Consideration to
 Orion 
 30,906,594 shares at C$14.56 per
 share (C$450 million) 
 
 
 - 
 Cash Consideration, consisting of:

 C$675 million 
 
 
 - 
 Cash from existing cash balance 
 C$250 million 
 
 
 - 
 Credit facility 
 C$150 million 
 
 
 - 
 Private Placement 
 18,887,362 shares at C$14.56 per share (C$275
 million) 
The issuance of the Orion Shares and the Private Placement
Shares is subject to approval by a simple majority of Osisko’s shareholders. A
special meeting of Osisko shareholders will be held in July 2017, with closing
of the Transaction expected on or around July 31, 2017, subject to customary
closing conditions, including the receipt of Osisko shareholder approval and
certain regulatory approvals, as well as the approval of the Toronto Stock
Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. However, the Transaction’s economic
effective date will be June 1, 2017. 
Following the Transaction, Orion, la Caisse and Fonds will hold
respectively 19.7%, 12.7%, and 5.5% of Osisko’s issued and outstanding common
shares. Any sale of the Orion Shares will be subject to certain restrictions,
including a 12-month hold period and a broad distribution requirement. 
Following the Transaction, Osisko’s balance sheet will remain
strong with approximately C$100 million in cash, over C$450 million in
investments and C$200 million in debt. 
Benefits of the Transaction to Osisko and its
shareholders 

 
 • 
 
 Meaningfully increases the size and scale of Osisko’s
 platform, which is expected to enhance its competitive positioning and
 access to capital 
 
 • 
 
 Strong potential for re-rating of Osisko’s shares
 
 
 • 
 
 Strengthens Osisko’s existing high-quality,
 Americas-focused portfolio with the addition of three new cornerstone
 assets, including two world class assets in Canada (Renard and Brucejack
 streams) 
4 

 
 • 
 Creates the highest cash flow growth story in
 the mining royalty space 
 
 • 
 Strong accretion to cash flow per share 
 
 • 
 Supports Osisko’s strong dividend policy and
 creates opportunity for further increases 
Osisko’s Evolution and Transformation into a World Class
Royalty Company 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd was formed in June 2014, following
the sale of Osisko Mining Corporation, which included the Canadian Malartic mine
and other assets in development, to a partnership formed by Agnico Eagle Mines
Limited and Yamana Gold Inc.
On June 16, 2014, Osisko started as a royalty company with a 5%
NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic mine, other non cash-flowing royalties, and
C$157 million in cash. The Company’s market capitalization was initially
evaluated at approximately C$500 million. 
Over the past 36 months, Osisko further transformed itself by
strategically acquiring Virginia Mines Inc., a portfolio of royalties from Teck
Resources and most recently a silver stream on Taseko Mines Limited’s Gibraltar
copper mine. During that period, Osisko advanced its own “accelerator”
investment model, through which it was able to significantly contribute to the
reinvigoration of the exploration sector in Canada. Through its investments in
Osisko Mining, Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd., Falco Resources Ltd. and numerous
other mining companies, Osisko was able to acquire strategic royalties and
stream financing options on prospective land packages and projects. The
accelerator model also enabled Osisko to maintain its dynamic technical team,
but most importantly to leverage its extensive expertise in exploration,
engineering, construction and financing.
Prior to the Transaction, Osisko had achieved a market
capitalization of approximately C$1.6 billion, over three times its starting
valuation in June 2014. The Transaction marks Osisko’s next significant step in
its transformation into a world class royalty company. 
Board Appointments 
Upon closing of the Transaction, Mr. Oskar Lewnowski, Orion’s
Chief Investment Officer, will join Osisko’s board of directors. Mr. Lewnowski
is the founder of Orion and has more than 20 years of experience in mine
financing, metals trading, and mergers and acquisitions.
As part of its investment agreement, la Caisse will also have
the right to nominate a director to Osisko’s board of directors. 
Advisors 
Osisko’s lead financial advisor is Maxit Capital LP (“Maxit”),
with BMO Capital Markets, National Bank Financial and PricewaterhouseCoopers
acting as financial advisors. Legal counsel are Bennett Jones LLP and Lavery de
Billy LLP in Canada, and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP in the
United States. Maxit has provided a fairness opinion to the Board of Directors
of Osisko that, subject to the assumptions, limitations, and qualifications set
out therein, the consideration paid by Osisko is fair, from a financial point of
view to Osisko. 
Orion’s financial advisors are CIBC World Markets Inc. and
Haywood Securities Inc. and their legal counsel is Fasken Martineau DuMoulin
LLP. 
Osisko’s credit facility is provided by the National Bank of
Canada acting as administrative agent and Bank of Montreal. 
5 

Qualified Person 
Mr. Luc Lessard is the qualified person for this release as
defined by National Instrument 43-101 – Standards of Disclosure for Mineral
Projects and has reviewed and verified the technical information contained
herein. Mr. Luc Lessard is an employee of Osisko Gold Royalties and is
non-independent. 
Conference Call Information 
Osisko will host a conference call on Monday, June 5, 2017 at
8:30 am EDT, where senior management will discuss the details of the
Transaction.
Those interested in participating in the conference call should
dial in at +1 647 788 4922 (international), or 1-877-223-4471 (North American
toll-free). An operator will direct participants to the call. 
The conference call replay will be available from 11:30 EDT on
June 5, 2017 until 11:59 pm EDT on June 12, 2017 with the following dial in
numbers: 1-800-585-8367 (North American toll free) or +1 416 621 4642, access
code 30327359. 
Definitions 
In a mining context, royalties, streams and offtakes are
different forms of alternative, production-based financing available to
operating companies. 
Under a royalty arrangement, an upfront payment is made
to the mining company in return for an ongoing payment for the life of the mine,
typically as a percentage of the revenue or earnings generated by the minerals
produced at the current market price. A NSR royalty is a net smelter
return royalty where net smelter return represents revenue after certain
smelting, refining and marketing deductions. 
A streaming agreement is similar in that an upfront
payment is made in return for a fixed proportion of the mine’s production, but
at a pre-determined price when the metal is delivered. The buyer of the stream
profits from the difference between the prevailing spot price at the time of
delivery and the predetermined price. Streaming arrangements are very often for
by-product metals, such as the silver extracted at a gold or copper mine. 
A precious metal offtake is an advance of funds
to an owner/operator, and a commitment from the buyer to purchase a given amount
of the gold/silver produced, at preset dates and terms, in repayment of the
funds advanced. The economics of a precious metal offtake are similar to an NSR
royalty. 
About Osisko 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Prior to the Transaction announced today, it holds over 50 royalties and one
stream, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine (Canada), a 2.0
-3.5% NSR royalty on the Éléonore Mine (Canada) and a silver stream on the
Gibraltar mine (Canada). It maintains a strong financial position with cash
resources of C$423.6 million at March 31, 2017 and has distributed C$35.1
million in dividends to its shareholders during the past ten consecutive
quarters. The Company also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource companies,
including a 15.3% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., 13.2% in Falco Resources Ltd.
and 33.4% in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. For more
information, visit osiskogr.com. 
6 

About Orion 
Orion Mine Finance Group is one of the world’s leading
mining-focused private equity businesses. In addition, the Orion team has
experience in the physical metals markets, such as facilitating the purchase,
metal financing, transporting, processing and selling of a mine’s output to end
customers. 
About Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec 
La Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec is a long-term
institutional investor that manages funds primarily for public and parapublic
pension and insurance plans. As at December 31, 2016, it held C$270.7 billion in
net assets. As one of Canada's leading institutional fund managers, la Caisse
invests globally in major financial markets, private equity, infrastructure and
real estate. For more information, visit cdpq.com, follow us on Twitter @LaCDPQ
or consult our Facebook or LinkedIn pages. 
About the Fonds de solidarité FTQ 
The Fonds de solidarité FTQ is a development capital fund that
channels the savings of Quebecers into investments. As at November 30, 2016, the
organization had $12.2 billion in net assets, and through its current portfolio
of investments has helped create and protect over 187,000 jobs. Fonds is a
partner in more than 2,600 companies and has nearly 618,000 shareholder-savers.
For more information, visit fondsftq.com. 
For further information please contact, Osisko Gold
Royalties: 

 
 
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com

Media Contact: 
Daniel Larouche Tel. (514) 944-6145 
Forward-looking statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
deemed “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable Canadian
and U.S. securities laws. All statements in this release, other than statements
of historical fact, that address future events, developments or performance that
Osisko expects to occur including management’s expectations regarding Osisko’s
growth, results of operations, estimated future revenues, requirements for
additional capital, mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates, production
estimates, gold equivalent ounces, production costs and revenue, future demand
for and prices of commodities, business prospects and opportunities are forward
looking statements based on certain estimates and assumptions, and no assurance
can be given that the estimates and assumptions will be realized. Forward
looking statements are statements that are not historical
facts and are generally, but not always, identified by the words “expects”,
“plans”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “intends”, “estimates”, “projects”,
“potential”, “scheduled” and similar expressions or variations (including
negative variations), or that events or conditions “will”, “would”, “may”,
“could” or “should” occur including, without limitation, the completion of the
Transaction and the Private Placement, the performance of the assets of Osisko,
the realization of the anticipated benefits deriving from Osisko’s investments
and the Transaction, including future NPV and cash flow, and the estimate of
gold equivalent ounces to be received. Although Osisko believes the expectations
expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable
assumptions, such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
other factors and are not guarantees of future performance and actual results
may accordingly differ materially from those in forward looking statements.
Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in
forward-looking statements include, without limitation: acceptance of the
Transaction by Osisko’s shareholders; the completion of the Private Placement;
the ability of the parties to receive, in a timely manner, the necessary
regulatory and other third party approvals; the ability of the parties to
satisfy, in a timely manner, the conditions to the closing of the Transaction;
the ability of Osisko to realize the assumed benefits of the Transaction;
fluctuations in the prices of the commodities that drive royalties held by
Osisko; fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S.
dollar; regulatory changes in national and local government, including
permitting and licensing regimes and taxation policies; regulations and
political or economic developments in any of the countries where properties in
which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest are located or through
which they are held; risks related to the operators of the properties in which
Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interests, influence of macroeconomic
developments; business opportunities that become available to, or are pursued by
Osisko; continued availability of capital and financing and general economic,
market or business conditions; litigation; title, permit or license disputes
related to interests on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty,
stream or other interest; development, permitting, infrastructure, operating or
technical difficulties on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty,
stream or other interest; rate and timing of production differences from mineral
resource estimates or production forecasts by operators of properties in which
Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest; risks and hazards associated
with the business of exploring, development and mining on any of the properties
in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest, including, but not
limited to unusual or unexpected geological and metallurgical conditions, slope
failures or cave-ins, flooding and other natural disasters or civil unrest or
other uninsured risks. 
7 

The forward looking statements contained in this press
 release are based upon assumptions management believes to be reasonable,
 including, without limitation: the ongoing operation of the properties in which
 Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest by the owners or operators of
 such properties in a manner consistent with past practice; the accuracy of
 public statements and disclosures made by the owners or operators of such
 underlying properties; no material adverse change in the market price of the
 commodities that underlie the asset portfolio; no adverse development in respect
 of any significant property in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other
 interest; the accuracy of publicly disclosed expectations for the development of
 underlying properties that are not yet in production; and the absence of any
 other factors that could cause actions, events or results to differ from those
anticipated, estimated or intended. 
For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
available electronically under Osisko’s issuer profile on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
The forward-looking information set forth herein reflects Osisko’s expectations
as at the date of this press release and is subject to change after such date.
Osisko disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise, other than as required by law. 
8