EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 
OSISKO FILES CIRCULAR FOR SPECIAL MEETING TO APPROVE
ACQUISITION OF ORION MINE FINANCE'S ROYALTY PORTFOLIO
Montréal, Québec, June 30, 2017
– Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd (TSX & NYSE: OR) ("Osisko" or the
“Company”) is pleased to announce that it has filed a
management information circular (the "Circular") and related proxy materials
with the Canadian securities regulators and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in advance of its special meeting of shareholders (the "Meeting").

BACKGROUND 
On June 5, 2017, Osisko announced that it has entered into a
definitive agreement with Orion Mine Finance Group ("Orion") to acquire a
high-quality precious metals portfolio of assets consisting of 74 royalties,
streams and precious metal offtakes for total consideration of C$1.125 billion,
creating a growth-oriented, world class and gold-focused royalty and streaming
company (the "Transaction"). The combination of Osisko's and Orion's portfolios
will result in Osisko holding a total of 131 royalties, streams and precious
metal offtakes, including 16 revenue-generating assets. The Company's
cornerstone assets remain the 5% net smelter return ("NSR") royalty on the world
class and long-life Canadian Malartic gold mine (Canada's largest producing gold
mine) and its 2.0% to 3.5% sliding scale NSR royalty on the world class Éléonore
gold mine. Through the Transaction, Osisko will gain a 9.6% diamond stream on
the Renard diamond mine and a 4% gold and silver stream on the Brucejack gold
and silver mine, all of which are new high-quality mines in Canada, in addition
to a 100% silver stream on the substantial Mantos Blancos copper mine in Chile.
Certain assets in the Orion portfolio are subject to buyback and buydown
provisions. 
Sean Roosen, Chair and CEO of Osisko, commented: “We are very
pleased to file our management information circular in connection with Osisko’s
acquisition of the Orion portfolio. Osisko’s Board of Directors and management
team invites all shareholders to vote IN FAVOUR of this transformational
transaction”. 
Shareholders of record on June 19, 2017, being the record date
for the Meeting, will receive notice of and be entitled to vote at the Meeting.
The Circular, which provides important information about the Transaction as well
as information concerning Osisko and Orion, is now being mailed to shareholders
of Osisko. 
OSISKO SPECIAL MEETING 
The special meeting of shareholders of Osisko is scheduled to
be held at 9:00 a.m. (Montréal time) on Monday, July 31,
2017 at the offices of Lavery, de Billy, L.L.P. located at 1 Place Ville
Marie, Suite 4000, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H3B 4M4. 
Your vote is important regardless of the number of shares
you own. Osisko encourages shareholders to read the meeting materials in
detail. An electronic copy of the Circular is available on Osisko's website at
www.osiskogr.com. It will also be available under Osisko's issuer
profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov.
1 

 
 YOUR VOTE IS IMPORTANT. VOTE TODAY.
 
 Osisko's Board of Directors and Management UNANIMOUSLY
 recommend that Shareholders vote IN FAVOUR
 of the Transaction. 
 
 
 
HOW TO VOTE 
Due to essence of time, shareholders are encouraged to vote
today using the internet, telephone or facsimile. 
Registered shareholders of Osisko Registered
shareholders may vote by: 

 Internet: www.cstvotemyproxy.com 
 Telephone: 1-888-489-7352 (North American Toll Free) 
 Facsimile: 1-866- 781-3111 (North American Toll Free) or
 416-368-2502 (outside North America) 
 Mail: 2001 Robert-Bourassa Blvd., Suite 1600, Montréal, Quebec, H3A
 2A6, or by courier at 2001 Robert-Bourassa Blvd., Suite 1600, Montréal,
 Quebec, H3A 2A6 
 Attending the meeting in person: 1 Place Ville Marie, Suite 4000,
 Montréal, Québec 
Non-registered shareholders of Osisko 
Shareholders who hold shares of Osisko through a bank or other
intermediary will have different voting instructions. In most cases,
non-registered shareholders will receive a voting instruction form as part of
the meeting materials. Non-registered shareholders are encouraged to carefully
follow the instructions found therein, on how to submit their votes.
SHAREHOLDERS QUESTIONS 
Shareholders of Osisko who have questions regarding the
Transaction or require assistance with voting may contact Laurel Hill Advisory
Group, the proxy solicitation agent, by telephone or email as set forth
below.
Laurel Hill Advisory Group By telephone (North
American Toll Free) at: 1-877-452-7184 By telephone (Collect Outside North
America) at: +1-416-304-0211 By email at: assistance@laurelhill.com

About Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd 
Osisko Gold Royalties Ltd is an intermediate precious metal
royalty company focused on the Americas that commenced activities in June 2014.
Prior to the Transaction announced on June 5, 2017, it held over 50 royalties
and one stream, including a 5% NSR royalty on the Canadian Malartic Mine
(Canada), a 2.0% to 3.5% sliding scale NSR royalty on the
Éléonore Mine (Canada) and a silver stream on the
Gibraltar mine (Canada). It maintains a strong financial position with cash
resources of C$423.6 million at March 31, 2017 and has distributed
C$35.1 million in dividends to its shareholders during the past ten
consecutive quarters. Osisko also owns a portfolio of publicly held resource
companies, including a 15.4% interest in Osisko Mining Inc., 13.3% in Falco
Resources Ltd. and 33.4% in Barkerville Gold Mines Ltd. 
2 

Osisko’s head office is located at 1100 Avenue des
Canadiens-de-Montréal, Suite 300, Montréal, Québec, H3B 2S2. For more
information, visit www.osiskogr.com.

 
 
 
 For further information, please contact Osisko
 Gold Royalties: 
 
 
 
 
 Joseph de la Plante 
 Vincent Metcalfe 
 
 Vice President, Corporate Development 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 Tel. (514) 940-0670 
 
 jdelaplante@osiskogr.com 
 vmetcalfe@osiskogr.com 
Forward-looking statements 
Certain statements contained in this press release may be
considered "forward-looking statements" or "forward-looking information" within
the meaning of applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. All statements in
this press release, other than statements of historical fact, that address
future events, developments or performance that Osisko expects to occur
including management's expectations regarding the benefits of the proposed
Transaction, if any, the timing and ability of Osisko to complete the proposed
Transaction, if at all, Osisko's growth, results of operations, estimated future
revenues, requirements for additional capital, mineral reserve and mineral
resource estimates, production estimates, gold equivalent ounces, production
costs and revenue, future demand for and prices of commodities, business
prospects and opportunities are forward looking statements based on certain
estimates and assumptions, and no assurance can be given that the estimates and
assumptions will be realized. Forward-looking statements are statements that are
not historical facts and are generally, but not always, identified by the words
"expects", "plans", "anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates",
"projects", "potential", "scheduled" and similar expressions or variations
(including negative variations), or that events or conditions "will", "would",
"may", "could" or "should" occur including, without limitation, the completion
of the Transaction and related private placement, the performance of the assets
of Osisko, the realization of the anticipated benefits deriving from Osisko's
investments and the Transaction, including future net present value and cash
flow measures, and the estimate of gold equivalent ounces to be acquired in
connection with the Transaction. 
Although Osisko believes the expectations expressed in such
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, such statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and are not
guarantees of future performance and actual results may accordingly differ
materially from those in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause
the actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements
include, without limitation: acceptance of the Transaction by Osisko's
shareholders; the completion of the related private placement; the ability of
the parties to receive, in a timely manner, the necessary regulatory and other
third party approvals; the ability of the parties to satisfy, in a timely
manner, the conditions to the closing of the Transaction; the ability of Osisko
to realize the assumed benefits of the Transaction; fluctuations in the prices
of the commodities that drive royalties held by Osisko; fluctuations in the
value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar; regulatory changes in
national and local government, including permitting and licensing regimes and
taxation policies; regulations and political or economic developments in any of
the countries where properties in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other
interest are located or through which they are held; risks related to the
operators of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other
interests, influence of macroeconomic developments; business opportunities that
become available to, or are pursued by Osisko; continued availability of capital
and financing and general economic, market or business conditions; litigation;
title, permit or license disputes related to interests on any of the properties
in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest; development,
permitting, infrastructure, operating or technical difficulties on any of the
properties in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest; rate and
timing of production differences from mineral resource estimates or production
forecasts by operators of properties in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or
other interest; risks and hazards associated with the business of exploring,
development and mining on any of the properties in which Osisko holds a royalty,
stream or other interest, including, but not limited to unusual or unexpected
geological and metallurgical conditions, slope failures or cave-ins, flooding
and other natural disasters or civil unrest or other uninsured risks. 
The forward-looking statements contained in this press
release are based upon assumptions management believes to be reasonable,
including, without limitation: the ongoing operation of the properties in which
Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other interest by the owners or operators of
such properties in a manner consistent with past practice; the accuracy of
public statements and disclosures made by the owners or operators of such
underlying properties; no material adverse change in the market price of the
commodities that underlie the asset portfolio; no adverse development in respect
of any significant property in which Osisko holds a royalty, stream or other
interest; the accuracy of publicly disclosed expectations for the development of
underlying properties that are not yet in production; and the absence of any
other factors that could cause actions, events or results to differ from those
anticipated, estimated or intended. 
3 

For additional information with respect to these and other
factors and assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements made in this
press release, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Annual
Information Form of Osisko which is filed with the Canadian securities
commissions and available electronically under Osisko's issuer profile on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and available electronically under Osisko's issuer profile on EDGAR
at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking information set forth
herein reflects Osisko's expectations as at the date of this press release and
is subject to change after such date. Osisko disclaims any intention or
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by
law. 
4