EX-99.1
2
tm2514989d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

ORLA MINING LTD.

FORM 51-102 F4

BUSINESS ACQUISITION REPORT

 

ITEM 1IDENTITY OF COMPANY

 

1.1NAME AND ADDRESS OF COMPANY

 

Orla Mining Ltd. (“Orla”
or the “Company”)

Suite 1010 – 1075 West Georgia
Street

Vancouver, BC. V6E 3C9

 

1.2EXECUTIVE OFFICER

 

Etienne Morin

Chief Financial Officer

(604) 564-1852

 

ITEM 2DETAILS OF ACQUISITION

 

2.1NATURE OF BUSINESS ACQUIRED

 

On February 28, 2025, the Company
acquired all the outstanding shares of Musselwhite Mine Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Corporation (“Newmont”),
that owns a 100% interest in the Musselwhite Mine (“Musselwhite”) located in northern Ontario (the "Acquisition").

 

Musselwhite is a producing, underground
gold mine located on the shore of Opapimiskan Lake in Northwestern Ontario. It has been in operation for over 25 years, having produced
approximately 6 million ounces of gold to date.

 

2.2DATE OF ACQUISITION

 

Orla completed the Acquisition on February 28,
2025.

 

2.3CONSIDERATION

 

The Company acquired Musselwhite from
Newmont for upfront cash consideration of US$810 million and gold-linked contingent consideration of up to US$40 million.

 

The US$810 million in upfront consideration
was funded through a US$250 million credit facility, a US$360 million gold pre-payment facility, and US$200 million in senior unsecured
convertible notes.

 

·US$250 million credit facility (the “Credit
Facility”) with a syndicate of lenders comprised of the Bank of Nova Scotia, Bank of Montreal, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
and ING Capital LLC, and consisting of:

 

oUS$150 million from the Company’s existing revolving credit facility, with an August 2027 maturity.

 

oUS$100 million under a three-year term loan, with quarterly repayments of US$5 million beginning December 31,
2025, and the balance to be paid at maturity.

 

 
 
 

 

The interest rate under the Credit Facility
is based on the term Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), plus an applicable margin ranging from 2.50% to 3.75% based on the Company’s
leverage ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter, provided that for the first two quarters there will be a minimum applicable margin of
3.0%. Orla will have the ability to repay the Credit Facility in full, without penalties, at any time prior to the maturity date.

 

·US$360 million gold prepayment (the “Gold
Prepayment”) executed with the Bank of Montreal, ING Capital Markets LLC and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, with the following
terms.

 

oThe Company has received an upfront payment of US$360 million based on gold forward prices averaging approximately
US$2,834 per ounce.

 

oIn exchange, the Company will make 36 equal monthly deliveries of gold ounces from March 2025 to
February 2028 totaling 144,887 gold ounces.

 

·US$200 million in senior unsecured convertible
notes (the “Convertible Notes”) led by the Company’s cornerstone shareholders, Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited (“Fairfax”),
Pierre Lassonde, and Trinity Capital Partners Corporation:

 

oCoupon: 4.5% per annum, payable in cash.

 

oMaturity: Five years from the date of issuance.

 

oConversion Right: The Convertible Notes may be converted in full or in part at any time prior to
the maturity date, by the holder thereof, into common shares (the “Shares”) of Orla.

 

oConversion Price: The initial conversion price for the Convertible Notes will be C$7.90 per Share
(the “Conversion Price”), which will be translated to US dollars at a fixed exchange rate of 1.40 CAD/USD. The Conversion
Price represents a premium of 42% relative to the closing price of the Shares on Friday November 15, 2024, the last trading day prior
to the announcement of the Transaction. Based on the Conversion Price, 35,443,026 Shares are issuable on conversion of the Convertible
Notes.

 

oRedemption Right: After the 18-month anniversary of the issuance, the Company may redeem the Convertible
Notes, provided that the 20-day volume weighted average price of the Shares is not less than 130% of the Conversion Price.

 

oWarrants: The holders of Convertible Notes received a total of 23,392,397 common share purchase
warrants (the “Warrants”), representing 0.66 Warrants for each Share issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. The
Warrants shall have an exercise price of C$11.50 per Share and shall expire on the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Transaction.

 

The gold-linked contingent consideration
of US$40 million is payable as follows:

 

·US$20 million to be paid should the average spot
gold price exceed US$2,900/oz for the initial one-year period following closing of the Acquisition; and

 

·US$20 million to be paid should the average spot
gold price exceed US$3,000/oz for the second full year period following closing of the Acquisition.

 

2.4EFFECT ON FINANCIAL POSITION

 

For details on the pro forma effect of
the Acquisition on Orla, see Item 3.

 

The information set out above is a summary
only and is qualified in its entirety by the information contained in the pro forma financial statements attached to this Business Acquisition
Report.

 

The unaudited pro forma adjustments described
therein are based on estimates and assumptions made by management, all of which are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose
of preparing the unaudited pro forma financial statements. Changes are expected as valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed
are completed and as additional information becomes available. Accordingly, the final fair value determinations may differ from those
set forth in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and such adjustments may be material.

 

 
 
 

 

2.5PRIOR VALUATIONS

 

In accordance with Multinational Instrument
61-101 – Protection of Minority Security Holders in Special Transactions ("MI 61-101"), the Company was required
to obtain a formal valuation of Musselwhite (the “Formal Valuation”).

 

The Board of the Directors of the Company
retained Davidson & Company LLP (“Davidson”) to prepare the Formal Valuation in connection with the Acquisition and
to provide the Formal Valuation as to the fair market value of Musselwhite in accordance with MI 61-101.

 

In arriving at an opinion of fair market
value of Musselwhite, Davidson employed a range of analysis, valuation criteria and valuation methodologies. Davidson did not attribute
any particular weight to any of the valuation approaches in the Formal Valuation, the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies
and the valuation conclusions drawn therefrom are matters of professional judgement.

 

The Formal Valuation contains Davidson’s
opinion that, based on the scope of its review and subject to the assumptions, restrictions and limitations provided therein, as of November 17,
2024, the fair market value of Musselwhite was between US$910,000,000 and US$940,000,000.

 

This summary of the Formal Valuation is
qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Formal Valuation, attached as Schedule “C” to the Company’s
management information circular dated December 9, 2024. The full text of the Formal Valuation describes the scope of review, the
assumptions made, procedures followed, matters considered and limitations on the review undertaken by Davidson.

 

Except as set forth above, to the best
knowledge of Orla, no valuation opinions required by securities legislation or a Canadian exchange or market have been obtained within
the last twelve months by Newmont or Orla in connection with Musselwhite.

 

2.6PARTIES TO TRANSACTION

 

The Company acquired Musselwhite from
Newmont, a holder of more than 10% of the voting rights attached to the outstanding Shares and an informed person as defined in Section 1.1
of National Instrument 51-102 – Continuous Disclosure Obligations.

 

2.7DATE OF REPORT

 

May 13, 2025

 

ITEM 3FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

The following financial statements are
provided in the Appendices:

 

 
 
 Appendix A
 Audited carve-out combined financial statements of Musselwhite as at and for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appendix B
 Unaudited pro forma income statement for the year ended December 31, 2024.
 

 

 
 
 

 

Appendix A

 

Audited carve-out combined financial statements
of Musselwhite

as at and for the years ended

December 31, 2024 and 2023,

 

 
 
 

 

Musselwhite

 

Combined Financial Statements

 

At and for the years ended December 31, 2024
and 2023

 

 
 
 

 

Index to Financial Statements

 

 
 
 Page
 
 Report of Independent Auditors 
 3
 
 Combined Statements of Operations 
 5
 
 Combined Balance Sheets 
 6
 
 Combined Statements of Cash Flows 
 7
 
 Combined Statements of Changes in Equity 
 8
 
 Notes to the Combined Financial Statements 
 9
 
 Note 1 Organization 
 9
 
 Note 2 Basis of Presentation 
 9
 
 Note 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
 9
 
 Note 4 Sales 
 14
 
 Note 5 Related Party Transactions 
 15
 
 Note 6 Reclamation 
 15
 
 Note 7 Impairment Charges 
 16
 
 Note 8 Income and Mining Taxes 
 16
 
 Note 9 Employee-Related Benefits 
 18
 
 Note 10 Inventories 
 18
 
 Note 11 Property, Plant and Mine Development 
 19
 
 Note 12 Other Current Liabilities 
 19
 
 Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies 
 19
 
 Note 14 Subsequent Events 
 19
 

 

 
 
 

 

Report of Independent Auditors

 

Board of Directors
Newmont Corporation

 

Opinion

 

We have audited the combined financial statements
of the Musselwhite gold mine (the Company), which comprise the combined balance sheets as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the
related combined statements of operations, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and the related notes (collectively
referred to as the “financial statements”).

 

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the results of
its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.

 

Basis for Opinion

 

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing
standards generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAS). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described
in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are required to be independent
of the Company and to meet our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the relevant ethical requirements relating to our audits.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

 

Responsibilities of Management for the Financial Statements

 

Management is responsible for the preparation
and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America, and for the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of
financial statements that are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

 

In preparing the financial statements, management
is required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern for one year after the date that the financial statements are available to be issued.

 

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements

 

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements as a whole are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not absolute assurance and therefore is not
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with GAAS will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Misstatements are considered material if there is a substantial
likelihood that, individually or in the aggregate, they would influence the judgment made by a reasonable user based on the financial
statements.

 

A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited

 

 3
 
 

 

In performing an audit in accordance with GAAS, we:

 

·Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional
skepticism throughout the audit.

 

·Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such procedures
include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.

 

·Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.

 

·Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used
and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluate the overall presentation of the financial
statements.

 

·Conclude whether, in our judgment, there are conditions or
events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for
a reasonable period of time.

 

We are required to communicate with those charged
with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit, significant audit findings, and certain internal
control-related matters that we identified during the audit.

 

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

 

Denver, Colorado
March 28, 2025

 

 4
 
 

 

Combined Statements of Operations
(in thousands)

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Sales (Note 4) 
 $515,957 
 $350,714 
 
 
 
 
 
 Costs and expenses: 
 
 
 
 Costs applicable to sales (1) 
 225,394 
 214,410 
 
 Depreciation and amortization 
 121,510 
 80,279 
 
 Reclamation (Note 6) 
 3,394 
 3,152 
 
 Exploration 
 6,998 
 7,449 
 
 Advanced projects, research and development 
 2,283 
 5,118 
 
 General and administrative 
 12,065 
 9,267 
 
 Impairment charges (Note 7) 
 477 
 296,508 
 
 Other expense, net 
 1,256 
 389 
 
 
 373,377 
 616,572 
 
 Other income (loss), net 
 3,095 
 (3,678)
 
 Income (loss) before income and mining tax and other items 
 145,675 
 (269,536)
 
 Income and mining tax expense (Note 8) 
 (30,326) 
 (13,358)
 
 Net income (loss) 
 $115,349 
 $(282,894)
 

 

 

(1)Excludes Depreciation and amortization
and Reclamation.

 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
the combined financial statements.

 

 5
 
 

 

Combined Balance Sheets
(in thousands)

 

 
 
 At December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 ASSETS 
 
 
 
 Trade receivables 
 $3,531 
 $869 
 
 Inventories (Note 10) 
 24,025 
 30,350 
 
 Stockpiles 
 716 
 307 
 
 Other receivables 
 5,160 
 5,969 
 
 Other current assets 
 3,785 
 612 
 
 Current assets 
 37,217 
 38,107 
 
 Property, plant and mine development, net (Note 11) 
 960,400 
 980,337 
 
 Other non-current assets 
 20 
 19 
 
 Total assets 
 $997,637 
 $1,018,463 
 
 
 
 
 
 LIABILITIES 
 
 
 
 Accounts payable 
 $14,250 
 $18,448 
 
 Employee-related benefits (Note 9) 
 9,633 
 7,875 
 
 Other current liabilities (Note 12) 
 19,124 
 24,786 
 
 Current liabilities 
 43,007 
 51,109 
 
 Reclamation liabilities (Note 6) 
 81,532 
 76,800 
 
 Deferred income tax liabilities (Note 8) 
 180,723 
 203,415 
 
 Employee-related liabilities (Note 9) 
 12,720 
 13,243 
 
 Other non-current liabilities 
 — 
 302 
 
 Total liabilities 
 317,982 
 344,869 
 
 
 
 
 
 Commitments and contingencies (Note 13) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EQUITY 
 
 
 
 Net Parent investment 
 679,655 
 673,594 
 
 Total equity 
 679,655 
 673,594 
 
 Total liabilities and equity 
 $997,637 
 $1,018,463 
 

 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
the combined financial statements.

 

 6
 
 

 

Combined Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Operating activities: 
 
 
 
 Net income (loss) 
 $115,349 
 $(282,894)
 
 Non-cash adjustments: 
 
 
 
 Depreciation and amortization 
 121,510 
 80,279 
 
 Reclamation 
 3,394 
 3,152 
 
 Deferred income taxes 
 (22,692) 
 8,543 
 
 Impairment charges 
 477 
 296,508 
 
 Other non-cash adjustments 
 (1,020) 
 320 
 
 Change in accounts receivable 
 (1,401) 
 (875)
 
 Change in inventories and stockpiles 
 2,352 
 (4,853)
 
 Change in accounts payable 
 (3,581) 
 (2,617)
 
 Change in other assets and liabilities 
 760 
 5,208 
 
 Net cash provided by operating activities 
 215,148 
 102,771 
 
 
 
 
 
 Investing activities: 
 
 
 
 Additions to property, plant and mine development 
 (105,860) 
 (90,672)
 
 Net cash used in investing activities 
 (105,860) 
 (90,672)
 
 
 
 
 
 Financing activities: 
 
 
 
 Net transfers to Parent 
 (109,288) 
 (12,099)
 
 Net cash used in financing activities 
 (109,288) 
 (12,099)
 
 
 
 
 
 Net change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 
 — 
 — 
 
 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 
 — 
 — 
 
 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period 
 $— 
 $— 
 

 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
the combined financial statements.

 

 7
 
 

 

Combined Statements of Changes in Equity
(in thousands)

 

 
 
 Net Parent Investment 
 
 Balance at January 1, 2023 
 $968,587 
 
 Net loss 
 (282,894)
 
 Net transfers to Parent 
 (12,099)
 
 Balance at December 31, 2023 
 673,594 
 
 Net income 
 115,349 
 
 Net transfers to Parent 
 (109,288)
 
 Balance at December 31, 2024 
 $679,655 
 

 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
the combined financial statements.

 

 8
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

NOTE 1ORGANIZATION

 

In February 2024, the Board of Directors of
Newmont Corporation (“Newmont" or "Parent") announced its intention to divest its Musselwhite gold mine ("Musselwhite"
or the "Company").

 

Musselwhite, located approximately 265 miles (430
kilometers) north of Thunder Bay, Ontario, is an underground operation. The Musselwhite operation comprises 940 mining claims and 338
mining leases, issued under the Ontario Mining Act, encompassing an area of 162,178 acres (65,631 hectares). The mining leases expire
between 2025 and 2033. Musselwhite is an iron formation hosted gold deposit. Process facilities include a conventional mill, which consists
of a crushing and grinding circuit, carbon-in-pulp and carbon-in-leach plants, elution circuits and an electrowinning plant where the
gold is recovered and smelted to produce doré. Musselwhite had 1.5 million ounces of gold reserves at December 31, 2024.

 

NOTE 2BASIS OF PRESENTATION

 

The combined financial statements of Musselwhite
have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The Company
historically existed and functioned as an operating segment of Newmont. The combined financial statements were prepared on a standalone
basis and were derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Newmont. The assets, liabilities and operations
of Musselwhite have historically been held and managed by various legal entities within Newmont and do not represent the operations of
a single, separate legal entity or a group of separate legal entities.

 

The combined statements of operations include all
revenues and costs directly attributable to Musselwhite's operations. The combined statements of operations also include an allocation
of expenses related to certain Newmont corporate functions, including executive management, finance, legal, information technology, human
resources and other shared services. These expenses have been allocated based on direct usage or benefit where specifically identifiable,
with the remainder allocated using a proportional cost allocation method based primarily on production of gold equivalent ounces.

 

The Company believes the allocation methodology
is reasonable for all periods presented. However, the allocations may not reflect the expenses the Company would have incurred as a standalone
entity for the periods presented. Multiple factors, including the chosen organizational structure, division between outsourced and in-house
functions, and strategic decisions made in areas such as information technology and capital expenditures, would impact the actual costs
incurred by Musselwhite. The Company determined that it is not practicable to determine these standalone costs for the periods presented.
As a result, the combined financial statements are not indicative of Musselwhite's financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows had Musselwhite operated as a standalone entity during the periods presented, and the results presented in the combined financial
statements are not indicative of Musselwhite's future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

 

Newmont
utilizes a centralized approach to cash management and financing of its operations. These arrangements may not be reflective of the way
Musselwhite would have financed its operations had it been a separate, standalone entity during the periods presented. The centralized
cash management arrangements are excluded from the asset and liability balances in Musselwhite's combined balance sheets. These amounts
have instead been included in Net Parent investment as a component
of equity. Newmont’s third-party debt and related interest expense have not been attributed to Musselwhite because the Company is
not the legal obligor of the debt, and the borrowings are not specifically identifiable to Musselwhite's operations.

 

Income tax amounts in the combined financial statements
have been calculated using the separate return method and presented as if Musselwhite was a separate taxpayer in the respective jurisdictions.

 

Transactions
between Musselwhite and Newmont are reflected as Net Parent investment in
the combined balance sheets and as financing activities in the combined statements of cash flows. Refer to Note 5 for additional information
regarding the relationship between Musselwhite and Newmont. Intercompany accounts and transactions within Musselwhite have been eliminated
in the preparation of the combined financial statements.

 

NOTE 3SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 

Risks and Uncertainties

 

As
a mining operation, the Company’s revenue, profitability and future rate of growth are substantially dependent on prevailing gold
prices. Historically, the commodity markets have been very volatile, and there can be no assurance that gold prices will not be subject
to wide fluctuations in the future. A substantial or extended decline in the price of gold could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows, access to capital and on the quantities of reserves that the Company
can economically produce. The carrying value of the Company’s Property, plant and mine development, net;
Inventories; Stockpiles;
and Deferred income tax assets are particularly sensitive to the
outlook for gold prices. A decline in the Company’s price outlook from current levels could result in material impairment charges
related to these assets.

 

 9
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

The Company is exposed to risks associated with
public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19, and geopolitical and macroeconomic pressures. The Company continues
to experience the impacts from recent geopolitical and macroeconomic pressures. With the resulting volatile environment, the Company continues
to monitor inflationary conditions, the effects of certain countermeasures taken by central banks, and the potential for further supply
chain disruptions as well as an uncertain and evolving labor market.

 

Factors that could have further potential short-
and, possibly, long-term material adverse impacts on the Company include, but are not limited to, volatility in commodity prices and the
price of gold, changes in the equity and debt markets or country specific factors adversely impacting discount rates, significant cost
inflation impacts on production, capital and asset retirement costs, logistical challenges, workforce interruptions and financial market
disruptions, energy market disruptions, as well as potential impacts to estimated costs and timing of projects. In light of these challenging
conditions, the Company recorded goodwill impairment charges at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 7 for further information.

 

Use of Estimates

 

The preparation of the combined financial statements
requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the related disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the combined financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses,
including allocations from Newmont, during the periods presented. The Company must make these estimates and assumptions because certain
information used is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot
be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

 

The more significant areas requiring the use of
estimates and assumptions relate to mineral reserves that are the basis for future cash flow estimates utilized in impairment calculations
and units-of-production amortization calculations; environmental remediation, reclamation and closure obligations; estimates of recoverable
gold in stockpile inventories; estimates of fair value for asset impairments; write-downs of inventory and stockpiles to net realizable
value; post-employment, post-retirement and other employee benefit liabilities; valuation allowances for deferred tax assets; provisional
amounts related to income tax effects of newly enacted tax laws; provisional amounts related to uncertain tax positions; and reserves
for contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed
to be reasonable under the circumstances. Accordingly, actual results may differ from the amounts estimated in these combined financial
statements.

 

Stockpiles and Inventories

 

As
described below, costs that are incurred in or benefit the productive process are accumulated as stockpiles and inventories. Stockpiles
and inventories are carried at the lower of average cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value represents the estimated future
sales price of the product based on current and long-term metals prices, less the estimated costs to complete production and bring the
product to sale. Write-downs of stockpiles and inventories to net realizable value are reported as a component of Costs applicable
to sales and Depreciation and amortization.
The current portion of stockpiles and inventories is determined based on the expected amounts to be processed within the next 12 months
and utilize short-term metal price assumptions in estimating net realizable value. Stockpiles and inventories not expected to be processed
within the next 12 months are classified as non-current and utilize long-term metal price assumptions in estimating net realizable value.
The major classifications are as follows:

 

Stockpiles

 

Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted
from the mine and is available for further processing. Mine sequencing may result in mining material at a faster rate than can be processed.
The Company generally processes the highest ore grade material first to maximize metal production; however, a blend of metal stockpiles
may be processed to balance hardness and/or metallurgy in order to maximize throughput and recovery. Processing of lower grade stockpiled
ore may continue after mining operations are completed. Stockpiles are measured by estimating the number of tons added and removed from
the stockpile, the number of contained ounces (based on assay data) and the estimated metallurgical recovery rates (based on the expected
processing method). Stockpile ore tonnages are verified by periodic surveys. Costs are added to stockpiles based on current mining costs
incurred including applicable overhead and depreciation and amortization relating to mining operations and removed at each stockpile’s
average cost per recoverable unit as material is processed. Carrying values are evaluated at least quarterly, in accordance with the above.

 

In-process Inventory

 

In-process inventories represent material that
is currently in the process of being converted to a saleable product. Conversion processes vary depending on the nature of the ore and
the specific processing facility but include mill in-circuit and carbon-in-leach. In-process material is measured based on assays of the
material fed into the process and the projected recoveries of the respective processing plants. In-process inventories are valued at the
lower of the average cost of the material fed into the process attributable to the source material coming from the mines, stockpiles,
plus the in-process conversion costs, including applicable amortization relating to the process facilities incurred to that point in the
process, or net realizable value.

 

 10
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

Precious Metals Inventory

 

Precious metals inventories include gold doré
and/or gold bullion. Precious metals that result from the Company’s mining and processing activities are valued at the lower of
the average cost of the respective in-process inventories incurred prior to the refining process, plus applicable refining costs or net
realizable value.

 

Materials and Supplies

 

Materials and supplies are valued at the lower
of average cost or net realizable value. Cost includes applicable taxes and freight.

 

Property, Plant and Mine Development

 

Facilities
and Equipment

 

Expenditures for new facilities or equipment and
expenditures that extend the useful lives of existing facilities or equipment are capitalized and recorded at cost. Facilities and equipment
acquired as a part of a finance lease, build-to-suit or other financing arrangement are capitalized and recorded based on the contractual
lease terms. The facilities and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method at rates sufficient to depreciate such capitalized
costs over the estimated productive lives of such facilities. These estimated productive lives do not exceed the related estimated mine
lives, which are based on proven and probable reserves.

 

Mine Development

 

Mine development costs include engineering and
metallurgical studies, drilling and other related costs to delineate an ore body, the removal of overburden to initially expose an ore
body and the building of access ways, shafts, lateral access, drifts, ramps and other infrastructure at underground mines. Costs incurred
before mineralization is classified as proven and probable reserves are expensed and classified as Exploration or Advanced projects,
research and development expense. Capitalization of mine development project costs that meet the definition of an asset begins once
mineralization is classified as proven and probable reserves.

 

Drilling and related costs are capitalized for
an ore body where proven and probable reserves exist and the activities are directed at obtaining additional information on the ore body
or converting measured, indicated and inferred resources to proven and probable reserves. All other drilling and related costs are expensed
as incurred. Drilling costs incurred during the production phase for operational ore control are allocated to inventory costs and then
included as a component of Costs applicable to sales.

 

Mine development costs are amortized using the
units-of-production method based on estimated recoverable ounces in proven and probable reserves. To the extent that these costs benefit
an entire ore body, they are amortized over the estimated life of the ore body. Costs incurred to access specific ore blocks or areas
that only provide benefit over the life of that area are amortized over the estimated life of that specific ore block or area.

 

Underground development costs incurred before mineralization
is classified as proven and probable reserves are expensed and classified as Exploration or Advanced projects, research and
development expense. Capitalization of mine development project costs that meet the definition of an asset begins once mineralization
is classified as proven and probable reserves.

 

Mineral Interests

 

Mineral interests include acquired interests in
production, development and exploration stage properties. Mineral interests are capitalized at their fair value at the acquisition date,
either as an individual asset purchase or as part of a business combination. Mineral interests in the development and exploration stage
are not amortized until the underlying property is converted to the production stage, at which point the mineral interests are amortized
over the estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves.

 

The value of such assets is primarily driven by
the nature and amount of mineral interests believed to be contained in such properties. Production stage mineral interests represent interests
in operating properties that contain proven and probable reserves and are amortized using the units-of-production method based on the
estimated recoverable ounces in proven and probable reserves. Development stage mineral interests represent interests in properties under
development that contain proven and probable reserves. Exploration stage mineral interests represent interests in properties that are
believed to potentially contain mineral resources consisting of (i) mineral resources within pits; mineral resources with insufficient
drill spacing to qualify as proven and probable reserves; and mineral resources in close proximity to proven and probable reserves; (ii) around-mine
exploration potential not immediately adjacent to existing reserves and mineralization, but located within the immediate mine area; (iii) other
mine-related exploration potential that is not part of current resources and is comprised mainly of material outside of the immediate
mine area; (iv) greenfield exploration potential that is not associated with any other production, development or exploration stage
property, as described above; or (v) any acquired right to explore or extract a potential mineral deposit. The Company’s mineral
rights generally are enforceable regardless of whether proven and probable reserves have been established. In certain limited situations,
the nature of a mineral right changes from an exploration right to a mining right upon the establishment of proven and probable reserves.
The Company has the ability and intent to renew mineral interests where the existing term is not sufficient to recover all identified
and valued proven and probable reserves and/or undeveloped mineral resources.

 

 11
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

Impairment of Long-lived Assets

 

The Company reviews and evaluates its long-lived
assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An impairment
loss is measured and recorded based on the estimated fair value of the long-lived assets being tested for impairment, and their carrying
amounts. Fair value is typically determined through the use of an income approach utilizing estimates of discounted pre-tax future cash
flows or a market approach utilizing recent transaction activity for comparable properties. These approaches are considered Level 3 fair
value measurements.

 

The estimated undiscounted cash flows used to assess
recoverability of long-lived assets and to measure the fair value of the Company’s mining operations are derived from current business
plans, which are developed using short-term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and management’s projections
for long-term average metal prices. In addition to short- and long-term metal price assumptions, other assumptions include estimates of
commodity-based and other input costs; proven and probable mineral reserve estimates, including the timing and cost to develop and produce
the reserves; value beyond proven and probable mineral reserve estimates; estimated future closure costs; and the use of appropriate discount
rates.

 

In estimating undiscounted cash flows, assets are
grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of undiscounted cash flows from other
asset groups. The Company’s estimates of undiscounted cash flows are based on numerous assumptions and it is possible that actual
cash flows may differ significantly from estimates, as actual produced reserves, metal prices, commodity-based and other costs, and closure
costs are each subject to significant risks and uncertainties.

 

Revenue Recognition

 

The Company generates revenue through the sale of gold produced
at its mining operations.

 

The majority of the Company’s Sales come
from the sale of refined gold; however, the end product is generally doré bars. Doré is an alloy consisting primarily of
gold but also containing silver and other metals. Doré is sent to refiners to produce bullion that meets the required market standard
of 99.95% gold. Under the terms of the Company’s refining agreements, the doré bars are refined for a fee, and the Company’s
share of the refined gold is credited to its bullion account. Gold from doré bars credited to its bullion account is typically
sold to banks or refiners.

 

The Company recognizes revenue for gold from doré
production when it satisfies the performance obligation of transferring gold inventory to the customer, which generally occurs upon transfer
of gold bullion credits as this is the point at which the customer obtains the ability to direct the use and obtains substantially all
of the remaining benefits of ownership of the asset.

 

The Company generally recognizes the sale of gold
bullion credits when the credits are delivered to the customer. The transaction price is determined based on the agreed upon market price
and the number of ounces delivered. Payment is due upon delivery of gold bullion credits to the customer’s account.

 

Income and Mining Taxes

 

The Company’s income tax provision was prepared
using the separate return method. The calculation of income taxes on a separate return basis requires a considerable amount of judgment
and use of both estimates and allocations. As a result, actual transactions included in Newmont's consolidated financial statements may
not be included in the combined financial statements. Similarly, the tax treatment of certain items reflected in the combined financial
statements may not be reflected in Newmont's consolidated financial statements and tax returns. Therefore, items such as net operating
losses, credit carryforwards and valuation allowances may exist in the combined financial statements that may or may not exist in Newmont’s
consolidated financial statements.

 

All income taxes due to or due from Newmont that
have not been settled or recovered by the end of the period are reflected in Net Parent investment. Any differences between actual
amounts paid or received by the Company and taxes accrued under the separate return method are deemed to be settled and are reflected
in Net Parent investment in the combined balance sheets.

 

The Company accounts for income taxes using the
liability method, recognizing certain temporary differences between the financial reporting basis of the Company’s liabilities and
assets and the related income tax basis for such liabilities and assets. This method generates either a net deferred income tax liability
or asset for the Company, as measured by the statutory tax rates in effect. The Company derives its deferred income tax charge or benefit
by recording the change in either the net deferred income tax liability or asset balance for the year. The financial statement effects
of changes in tax law are recorded as discrete items in the period enacted as part of income tax expense or benefit from continuing operations,
regardless of the category of income or loss to which the deferred taxes relate. The Company determines if the assessment of a particular
income tax effect is “complete.” Those effects for which the accounting is determined to be complete are reported in the enactment
period financial statements. The Company has exposure to the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on tax positions, such movements
are recorded within Income and mining tax expense related to deferred income tax assets and liabilities.

 

Mining taxes represent provincial taxes levied
on mining operations and are classified as income taxes. As such, taxes are based on a percentage of mining profits.

 

 12
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

The Company operates in Canada where uncertainties
arise in the application of complex tax regulations. Some of these tax regimes are defined by contractual agreements with the local government,
while others are defined by general tax laws and

 

regulations.
The Company is subject to reviews of its income tax filings and other tax payments, and disputes can arise with the taxing authorities
over the interpretation of its contracts or laws. The Company recognizes potential liabilities and records tax liabilities for anticipated
tax audit issues in Canada based on its estimate of whether it is more likely than not, and the extent to which, additional taxes will
be due. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these
uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the Company’s current estimate
of the tax liabilities. If the Company’s estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional
charge to expense would result. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be greater than the ultimate assessment, a tax benefit would
result. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in Income and mining tax
expense.

 

Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets

 

The Company’s deferred income tax assets
include certain future tax benefits. The Company records a valuation allowance against any portion of those deferred income tax assets
when it believes, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income
tax asset will not be realized. The Company reviews the likelihood that it will realize the benefit of its deferred tax assets and therefore
the need for valuation allowances on a quarterly basis, or more frequently if events indicate that a review is required. In determining
the requirement for a valuation allowance, the historical and projected financial results of the legal entity or combined group recording
the net deferred tax asset is considered, along with all other available positive and negative evidence.

 

Certain categories of evidence carry more weight
in the analysis than others based upon the extent to which the evidence may be objectively verified. The Company looks to the nature and
severity of cumulative pretax losses (if any) in the current three-year period ending on the evaluation date, recent pretax losses and/or
expectations of future pretax losses. Other factors considered in the determination of the probability of the realization of the deferred
tax assets include, but are not limited to:

 

·Earnings
history;

 

·Projected
future financial and taxable income based upon existing reserves and long-term estimates of commodity prices;

 

·The
duration of statutory carry forward periods;

 

·Prudent
and feasible tax planning strategies readily available that may alter the timing of reversal of the temporary difference;

 

·Nature
of temporary differences and predictability of reversal patterns of existing temporary differences; and

 

·The
sensitivity of future forecasted results to commodity prices and other factors.

 

Concluding that a valuation allowance is not required
is difficult when there is significant negative evidence which is objective and verifiable, such as cumulative losses in recent years.
The Company utilizes a rolling twelve quarters of pre-tax income or loss as a measure of its cumulative results in recent years. However,
a cumulative three year loss is not solely determinative of the need for a valuation allowance. The Company also considers all other available
positive and negative evidence in its analysis.

 

Reclamation Costs

 

Reclamation obligations associated with Musselwhite's
operations are recognized when an obligation is incurred and the fair value can be reasonably estimated. Fair value is measured as the
present value of expected cash flow estimates, after considering inflation, our credit-adjusted risk-free rates and a market risk premium
appropriate for the Company's operations. The liability is accreted over time through periodic charges to earnings. In addition, the asset
retirement cost is capitalized as part of the asset’s carrying value and amortized over the life of the related asset. Reclamation
costs are periodically adjusted to reflect changes in the estimated present value resulting from the passage of time and revisions to
the estimates of either the timing or amount of the reclamation costs. Changes in reclamation estimates at mines that are not currently
operating, as the mine or portion of the mine site has entered the closure phase and has no substantive future economic value, are reflected
in earnings in the period an estimate is revised. The estimated reclamation obligation is based on when spending for an existing disturbance
is expected to occur. Costs included in estimated asset retirement obligations are discounted to their present value as cash flows are
readily estimable over a period of up to fifty years. The Company reviews, on an annual basis, unless otherwise deemed necessary, the
reclamation obligation in accordance with GAAP guidance for asset retirement obligations.

 

Fair Value Accounting

 

Fair value accounting establishes a fair value
hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to
unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable
inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below:

 

Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible
at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;

 

 13
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

Level 2Quoted prices in markets that are not active, quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices or inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially
the full term of the asset or liability and model-based valuation techniques (e.g. the Black-Scholes model) for which all significant
inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or
liabilities; and

 

Level 3Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both
significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (supported by little or no market activity).

 

The Company's financial instruments measured on
a recurring basis primarily include receivables and payables for which the carrying value approximates fair value due to the short maturities
and are classified within Level 1.

 

The Company's long-lived assets are subject to
fair value measurement as a result of impairment tests performed for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023.

 

Foreign Currency

 

The functional currency of the Company’s
operations is the U.S. dollar. Transaction gains and losses related to foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities where
the functional currency is the U.S. dollar are remeasured at current exchange rates and the resulting adjustments are included in Other
income (loss), net.

 

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

 

Effects of Reference Rate Reform

 

In March 2020, Financial Accounting Standards
Board's Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2020-04 was issued which provides optional guidance for a limited period
of time to ease the potential burden on accounting for contract modifications caused by reference rate reform. In January 2021, ASU
No. 2021-01 was issued which broadened the scope of ASU No. 2020-04 to include certain derivative instruments. In December 2022,
ASU No. 2022-06 was issued which deferred the sunset date of ASU No. 2020-04. The guidance is effective for all entities as
of March 12, 2020 through December 31, 2024. The guidance may be adopted over time as reference rate reform activities occur
and should be applied on a prospective basis. The Company has completed its review of key contracts and does not expect the guidance to
have a material impact to the combined financial statements or disclosures. The Company will continue to review new contracts to identify
references to the London Interbank Offered Rates and implement adequate fallback provisions if not already implemented to mitigate the
risks or impacts from the transition.

 

Pillar II

 

In 2024, Pillar II went into effect. The Pillar
II agreement was signed by 138 countries with the intent to equalize corporate tax around the world by implementing a global minimum tax
of 15%. As the Company primarily does business in jurisdictions with a tax rate greater than 15%, Pillar II did not have a material impact
to the combined financial statements.

 

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

 

Disaggregation of Income Statement
Expenses

 

In November 2024, ASU 2024-03 was issued,
requiring additional disclosures in the notes to the financial statements on the nature of certain expense captions presented on the face
of the combined statements of operations. The new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15,
2026 and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2027. The Company is currently evaluating the impacts of the guidance
on its combined financial statements.

 

Improvement to Income Tax Disclosures

 

In December 2023, ASU 2023-09 was issued which
requires disaggregated information about the effective tax rate reconciliation and additional information on taxes paid that meet a qualitative
threshold. The new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2024, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impacts of the guidance on its combined financial statements.

 

NOTE 4SALES

 

The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of gold doré
produced in Canada.

 

Trade Receivables

 

At December 31, 2024 and 2023, Trade receivables
wholly consisted of sales from gold doré, which includes provisionally priced carbon fines.

 

 14
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

Revenue by Geographic Area

 

The Company primarily conducts gold sales in U.S.
dollars, and therefore Sales are not exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. Revenues from sales attributed to countries
based on the locations of the customer were as follows (in thousands):

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 United Kingdom 
 $398,735 
 $318,028 
 
 Canada 
 95,173 
 16,891 
 
 South Africa 
 11,513 
 8,864 
 
 United States 
 10,536 
 6,931 
 
 
 $515,957 
 $350,714 
 

 

Revenue by Major Customer

 

As gold can be sold through numerous gold market
traders worldwide, the Company is not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sales of its product.

 

In 2024, sales to Standard Chartered were $269.7
million (52.3%), Royal Bank of Canada were $95.3 million (18.5%), JPMorgan Chase were $77.6 million (15.0%), and Toronto Dominion Bank
were $52.0 million (10.1%) of total gold sales. In 2023, sales to Toronto Dominion Bank were $134.0 million (38.2%), JPMorgan Chase were
$106.3 million (30.3%), and Standard Chartered were $79.0 million (22.4%) of total gold sales.

 

NOTE 5RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

 

Historically, Musselwhite has been managed and
operated in the normal course of business with other affiliates of Newmont. Accordingly, certain shared costs have been allocated to Musselwhite
and reflected as expenses in the combined financial statements.

 

The combined financial statements include corporate
costs incurred by Newmont for services that are provided to or on behalf of Musselwhite. The corporate costs include allocations of costs
incurred associated with executive management, finance, legal, information technology, human resources and other shared services. These
costs have been allocated to Musselwhite based primarily on its production of gold equivalent ounces. Newmont management and Musselwhite
believe the allocation methodology is reasonable and appropriately represents Newmont’s historical expenses that were attributable
to Musselwhite. However, the expenses reflected in the combined financial statements may not be indicative of the actual expenses that
would have been incurred during the periods presented had Musselwhite historically operated as a separate, standalone entity. In addition,
the expenses reflected in the combined financial statements may not be indicative of expenses that Musselwhite will incur in the future.

 

The allocated costs in the combined statements of operations
were as follows (in thousands):

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Costs applicable to sales 
 $12,665 
 $12,612 
 
 General and administrative 
 11,352 
 8,456 
 
 Advanced projects, research and development 
 2,209 
 2,714 
 
 
 $26,226 
 $23,782 
 

 

Shared Facilities

 

Musselwhite shares office space and other non-operational
related facilities with Newmont and other Newmont operations where Musselwhite is not the primary or exclusive user of the assets. At
these shared facilities, the assets have been excluded from the combined balance sheets. However, the Company recognized costs for its
usage of these shared assets. The amount charged to General and administrative in the combined statements of operations was $1.0
million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

 

NOTE 6RECLAMATION

 

The Company’s mining and exploration activities
are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations are continually changing
and are generally becoming more restrictive. The Company conducts its operations to protect public health and the environment and believes
its operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. The Company has made, and expects to make
in the future, expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, but cannot predict the full amount of such future expenditures.
Estimated future reclamation costs are based principally on current legal and regulatory requirements.

 

 15
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

The Company’s Reclamation expense consisted of (in thousands):

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Reclamation accretion 
 $3,394 
 $3,153 
 
 Reclamation adjustments and other 
 — 
 (1)
 
 Reclamation expense 
 $3,394 
 $3,152 
 

 

The following is a reconciliation of Reclamation liabilities (in thousands):

 

 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Balance at January 1, 
 $76,800 
 $75,976 
 
 Additions, changes in estimates and other 
 1,338 
 (2,329)
 
 Accretion expense 
 3,394 
 3,153 
 
 Balance at December 31, 
 $81,532 
 $76,800 
 

 

The amounts accrued are reviewed periodically based
upon facts and circumstances available at the time. Changes in estimates are recorded in Other current liabilities and Reclamation
liabilities in the period estimates are revised.

 

Refer to Note 13 for further discussion of reclamation
matters.

 

NOTE 7IMPAIRMENT CHARGES

 

The estimated cash flows utilized in both the long-lived
asset and goodwill impairment evaluations are derived from the Company's current business plans. The Company completed its annual business
plan update which reflected updated mine plans, certain adverse changes in market conditions, including inflationary pressures to costs
and capital, strategic evaluation regarding the use of capital, and updates to asset retirement costs.

 

Impairment of goodwill

 

The Company evaluates its goodwill for impairment
annually at December 31 or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than
its carrying value. Based on the December 31, 2023 review, the Company concluded that goodwill was impaired. The goodwill impairment
was driven by a deterioration in underlying cash flows from higher costs due to inflationary pressures, and resulted in a non-cash impairment
charge of $292.9 million, which represented the full goodwill balance of the reporting unit prior to impairment. The Company measured
the impairment by comparing the total fair value of the existing operations to the corresponding reporting unit carrying value. The estimated
fair value was determined using the income approach and is considered a non-recurring level 3 fair value measurement. Significant inputs
to the fair value measured included (i) updated cash flow information from the Company's current business and closure plans, (ii) a
short-term gold price of $1,950, (iii) a long-term gold price of $1,700, (iv) current estimates of reserves, resources, and
exploration potential and (v) a reporting unit specific discount rate of 10%. The selected discount rate incorporates an additional
premium related to operational risk at the Company.

 

Impairment of long-lived and other assets

 

The Company reviews and evaluates its long-lived
and other assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
If the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset group are less than the carrying
amount of the assets, an impairment loss is recognized. The Company measures impairment by comparing the total fair value of the existing
operations to the carrying value of the corresponding assets. The Company recognized impairment charges to long-lived and other assets
of $0.5 million and $3.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

 

NOTE 8INCOME AND MINING TAXES

 

The Company's Income and mining tax expense consisted
of (in thousands):

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Current: 
 
 
 
 Canada 
 $(53,018) 
 $(4,815)
 
 Deferred: 
 
 
 
 Canada 
 22,692 
 (8,543)
 
 Income and mining tax expense 
 $(30,326) 
 $(13,358)
 

 

 16
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

The Company's Income (loss) before income and
mining tax and other items is attributable to the following jurisdictions (in thousands):

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Canada 
 $145,675 
 $(269,536)
 
 Income (loss) before income and mining tax and other items 
 $145,675 
 $(269,536)
 

 

A reconciliation of the Canadian statutory tax
rate to the Company’s effective income tax rate follows (in thousands, except percentages):

 

 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Income (loss) before income and mining tax and other items 
 
 $145,675 
 
 $(269,536)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Canada statutory tax rate 
 15.0% 
 $(21,851) 
 15.0% 
 $40,430 
 
 Reconciling items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Provincial income taxes 
 10.0% 
 (14,567) 
 10.0% 
 26,954 
 
 Change in valuation allowance on deferred tax assets 
 —% 
 (213) 
 (1.0)% 
 (1,276)
 
 Impact of foreign exchange 
 (11.0)% 
 16,531 
 (2.0)% 
 (6,437)
 
 Mining and other taxes (net of associated federal benefit) 
 4.0% 
 (5,964) 
 —% 
 305 
 
 Goodwill write-downs 
 —% 
 — 
 (27.0)% 
 (73,228)
 
 Book to return true-ups 
 3.0% 
 (3,954) 
 —% 
 — 
 
 Other 
 —% 
 (308) 
 —% 
 (106)
 
 Income and mining tax expense 
 21.0% 
 $(30,326) 
 (5.0)% 
 $(13,358)
 

 

Mining taxes in Canada represent
provincial taxes levied on mining operations and are classified as income taxes as such taxes are based on a percentage of mining profits.

 

Components
of the Company's deferred income tax assets (liabilities) are as follows (in thousands):

 

 
 
 At December 31, 
 
 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Deferred income tax assets: 
 
 
 
 Reclamation 
 $16,450 
 $16,274 
 
 Tax credits 
 — 
 265 
 
 
 16,450 
 16,539 
 
 Valuation allowances 
 (1,400) 
 (1,300)
 
 
 $15,050 
 $15,239 
 
 
 
 
 
 Deferred income tax liabilities: 
 
 
 
 Property, plant and mine development 
 $(195,773) 
 $(218,654)
 
 
 (195,773) 
 (218,654)
 
 Net deferred income tax liabilities 
 $(180,723) 
 $(203,415)
 

 

Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets

 

The Company assesses the available positive and
negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to utilize the existing deferred tax assets. A significant
piece of objective negative evidence evaluated was the recent pretax losses and/or expectations of future pretax losses. Such objective
evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence such as the Company's projections for future growth. However, the amount
of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period
are increased, if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present or if additional weight were given
to subjective evidence such as the Company's projections for growth.

 

The Company recorded an increase to the valuation
allowance of $0.1 million to tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 and an increase to the valuation allowance of $1.3
million to tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2023. Both years were primarily driven by changes in estimated taxable income
projections and exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations.

 

 17
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

Deferred Income Tax Valuation Allowance

 

 
 
 At December 31, 
 
 (in thousands) 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Balance at beginning of year 
 $1,300 
 $— 
 
 Additions to deferred income tax expense 
 100 
 1,300 
 
 Reduction of deferred income tax expense 
 — 
 — 
 
 Balance at end of year 
 $1,400 
 $1,300 
 

 

Refer to Note 3 for additional risk factors that
could impact the Company's ability to realize the deferred tax assets.

 

Tax Credits and Unrecognized Tax Benefits

 

Canadian minimum tax credits were fully utilized
as of December 31, 2024. Minimum tax credits for 2023 consisted of $0.3 million.

 

From time to time, the Company is subject to a
review of its historic income tax filings and in connection with such reviews, disputes can arise with the taxing authorities over the
interpretation of or the application of certain rules to the business conducted within the jurisdiction involved. The Company's practice
is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of Income and mining tax expense, if applicable.
In the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company did not have any unrecognized tax benefits.

 

NOTE 9EMPLOYEE-RELATED BENEFITS

 

 
 
 At December 31, 
 
 (in thousands) 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Current: 
 
 
 
 Accrued payroll and withholding taxes 
 $2,542 
 $2,402 
 
 Other employee-related payables 
 7,091 
 5,473 
 
 
 $9,633 
 $7,875 
 
 Non-current: 
 
 
 
 Accrued severance 
 $12,720 
 $13,243 
 

 

Defined Contribution and Other Benefit Plans

 

Newmont has a registered defined contribution pension
plan in Canada, which covers salaried and hourly employees. When an employee meets eligibility requirements, Newmont contributes 5% of
employees’ eligible earnings, plus matches 100% of employee contributions of up to 4% of eligible earnings. Matching contributions
are made in cash. In addition, Newmont has one non-qualified supplemental savings plan for executive-level employees whose benefits under
the qualified plan are limited by federal regulations. The amount charged to Costs applicable to sales in the combined statements
of operations was $5.5 million and $5.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively.

 

NOTE 10INVENTORIES

 

 
 
 At December 31, 
 
 (in thousands) 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Materials and supplies 
 $21,263 
 $19,600 
 
 In-process 
 1,813 
 5,384 
 
 Precious metals 
 949 
 5,366 
 
 
 $24,025 
 $30,350 
 

 

 18
 
 

 

Notes to the Combined Financial Statements

 

NOTE 11PROPERTY, PLANT AND MINE DEVELOPMENT

 

Property, plant and mine development balances at December
31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows (in thousands):

 

 
 
 Depreciable 
 At December 31, 2024 
 At December 31, 2023 
 
 
 Life 
 
 Accumulated 
 Net Book 
 
 Accumulated 
 Net Book 
 
 
 (in years) 
 Cost 
 Depreciation 
 Value 
 Cost 
 Depreciation 
 Value 
 
 Facilities and equipment 
 1-26 
 $312,423 
 $(122,686) 
 $189,737 
 $270,076 
 $(98,608) 
 $171,468 
 
 Mine development 
 1-26 
 289,447 
 (72,305) 
 217,142 
 212,990 
 (39,648) 
 173,342 
 
 Mineral interests 
 1-26 
 768,842 
 (218,871) 
 549,971 
 768,842 
 (157,760) 
 611,082 
 
 Construction-in-progress 
 
 3,550 
 — 
 3,550 
 24,445 
 — 
 24,445 
 
 
 
 $1,374,262 
 $(413,862) 
 $960,400 
 $1,276,353 
 $(296,016) 
 $980,337 
 

 

 
 
 Depreciable 
 At December 31, 2024 
 At December 31, 2023 
 
 
 Life 
 
 Accumulated 
 Net Book 
 
 Accumulated 
 Net Book 
 
 Mineral Interests 
 (in years) 
 Cost 
 Depreciation 
 Value 
 Cost 
 Depreciation 
 Value 
 
 Production stage 
 1-26 
 $564,517 
 $(218,871) 
 $345,646 
 $564,517 
 $(157,760) 
 $406,757 
 
 Exploration stage 
 (1) 
 204,325 
 — 
 204,325 
 204,325 
 — 
 204,325 
 
 
 
 $768,842 
 $(218,871) 
 $549,971 
 $768,842 
 $(157,760) 
 $611,082 
 

 

 

(1) These
amounts are currently non-depreciable as the mineral interests have not reached production stage.

 

NOTE
 12OTHER
CURRENT LIABILITIES

 

 
 
 At December 31, 
 
 (in thousands) 
 2024 
 2023 
 
 Accrued operating costs 
 $13,735 
 $10,419 
 
 Accrued capital expenditures 
 5,389 
 14,367 
 
 
 $19,124 
 $24,786 
 

 

NOTE 13COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

 

Estimated losses from contingencies are accrued
by a charge to income when information available prior to issuance of the combined financial statements indicates that it is probable
that a liability could be incurred, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Legal expenses associated with the contingency
are expensed as incurred. If a loss contingency is not probable or reasonably estimable, disclosure of the contingency and estimated range
of loss, if determinable, is made in the combined financial statements when it is at least reasonably possible that a material loss could
be incurred.

 

As part of its ongoing business and operations,
the Company is required to provide surety bonds as financial support for various purposes, including environmental reclamation and other
general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2024, there were $38.8 million of outstanding surety bonds. The obligations associated
with these instruments are generally related to performance requirements that the Company addresses through its ongoing operations. As
the specific requirements are met, the beneficiary of the associated instrument cancels and/or returns the instrument to the issuing entity.
Certain of these instruments are associated with operating sites with long-lived assets and will remain outstanding until closure. Generally,
bonding requirements associated with environmental regulation are becoming more restrictive. However, the Company believes it is in compliance
with all applicable bonding obligations and will be able to satisfy future bonding requirements through existing or alternative means,
as they arise.

 

The Company is from time to time involved in various
legal proceedings related to its business. The Company does not believe that adverse decisions in any pending or threatened proceeding
or that amounts that may be required to be paid by reason thereof will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
condition or results of operations.

 

NOTE 14SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

 

In November 2024, Newmont entered into a definitive
agreement to sell the Company to Orla Mining Ltd. The sale closed on February 28, 2025.

 

These combined financial statements reflect management's
evaluation of subsequent events, through March 28, 2025, the date the financial statements were available to be issued. No other
subsequent events were identified outside of the transaction presented above.

 

 19
 
 

 

Appendix B

 

Unaudited pro forma combined income statement

for the year ended December 31, 2024

 

ORLA MINING LTD.

Pro Forma Condensed Income Statement

 

(Unaudited)

 

Pro forma Condensed Income Statement for the year ended December 31, 2024, that gives effect to the Acquisition as if the Acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2024. 

 

 – page B-1 –
 
 

 

ORLA MINING LTD.

PRO FORMA CONDENSED INCOME
STATEMENT

(Figures in tables are expressed
in thousands of US dollars)

 

For
the year ended December 31, 2024 (Unaudited)

 

 
 
 Orla Mining Ltd. 
 Musselwhite Mine 
 Reclass 
 Pro forma financing 
 Pro forma acquisition 
 note 
 Pro forma combined 
 
 Revenue 
 343,918 
 515,957 
 
 
 
 
 859,875 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales – operating costs 
 85,595 
 225,394 
 
 
 5,257 
 4(b)(i) 
 316,246 
 
 Cost of sales – DD&A 
 40,683 
 121,510 
 
 
 13,492 
 4(b)(ii) 
 175,685 
 
 Cost of sales 
 126,278 
 346,904 
 
 
 18,749 
 
 491,931 
 
 Mine operating earnings 
 217,640 
 169,053 
 
 
 (18,749) 
 
 367,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Office and administration 
 16,899 
 12,065 
 
 
 
 
 28,964 
 
 Transaction costs expensed 
 – 
 
 
 
 12,000 
 5 
 12,000 
 
 Exploration and advanced projects 
 34,595 
 
 9,281 
 
 
 
 43,876 
 
 Reclamation expense 
 – 
 3,394 
 (3,394) 
 
 
 
 – 
 
 Exploration 
 – 
 6,998 
 (6,998) 
 
 
 
 – 
 
 Projects, research & development 
 – 
 2,283 
 (2,283) 
 
 
 
 – 
 
 Interest (income) 
 (10,845) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10,845)
 
 Depreciation and amortization 
 407 
 
 
 
 
 
 407 
 
 Share based payments 
 4,815 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,815 
 
 Interest and accretion expense 
 6,891 
 
 
 18,750 
 
 3(a) 
 52,769 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,600 
 
 3(b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,528 
 
 3(c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fair value adjustments on financial instruments 
 (3,138) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,138)
 
 Foreign exchange loss (gain) 
 (8,251) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,251)
 
 Other (gains) and losses 
 5 
 1,256 
 299 
 
 
 
 1,560 
 
 Other expenses 
 – 
 (3,095) 
 3,095 
 
 
 
 – 
 
 Impairments 
 – 
 477 
 
 
 
 
 477 
 
 Net income (loss) before tax expense 
 176,262 
 145,675 
 – 
 (45,878) 
 (30,749) 
 
 245,310 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tax expense 
 87,281 
 30,326 
 – 
 (10,740) 
 (14,110) 
 4(b)(iii) 
 92,757 
 
 Net income 
 88,981 
 115,349 
 – 
 (35,138) 
 (16,639) 
 
 152,553 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (millions) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Basic 
 318.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 318.7 
 
 Diluted 
 333.9 
 
 
 
 
 
 333.9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Loss per common share 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Basic 
 $0.28 
 
 
 
 
 
 $0.48 
 
 Diluted 
 $0.27 
 
 
 
 
 
 $0.46 
 

 

See accompanying notes.

 

 – page B-2 –
 
 

 

ORLA MINING LTD.

PRO FORMA CONDENSED INCOME
STATEMENT

(Figures in tables are expressed
in thousands of US dollars)

 

For
the year ended December 31, 2024 (Unaudited)

 

1.
Basis of presentation

 

The unaudited pro forma combined income
statements for the year ended December 31, 2024 (the "pro forma financial statements") have been prepared by the management
of Orla Mining Ltd. ("Orla" or the "Company").

 

The pro forma financial statements give
effect to the acquisition pursuant to which all of the issued and outstanding shares of a newly created corporation which holds the Musselwhite
Mine was acquired by Orla as described in note 2 below (the "Acquisition"). The pro forma financial statements have not been
adjusted to reflect any non-recurring charges directly related to events that have or may be incurred following the Acquisition.

 

The pro forma financial statements include
the following information:

 

·An unaudited pro forma combined income statement
for the year ended December 31, 2024, prepared from the audited combined income statement of Orla and information derived from Musselwhite
Mine audited income statement, each for the year ended December 31, 2024, giving effect to (i) the Acquisition as if it had
occurred on January 1, 2024, and (ii) the assumptions and adjustments as described in note 3.

 

·These accompanying notes.

 

The pro forma financial statements have
been prepared for illustrative purposes only, and do not purport to represent the results of operations that would have resulted had the
Acquisition occurred on January 1, 2024. Further, the pro forma financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the future
results of operations which would result from the Acquisition. These pro forma financial statements should be read in conjunction with
the audited financial statements of Orla as at and for the year ended December 31, 2024. Actual results will be materially different.

 

The pro forma financial statements do
not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or enhancements that the combined company may achieve, or liabilities arising, from
the Acquisition. Such savings or liabilities could be material.

 

The accounting policies used in the
preparation of the pro forma financial statements are those set out in Orla’s audited financial statements as at and for the year
ended December 31, 2024. In preparing the pro forma financial statements, a review was undertaken to identify differences between
Orla’s accounting policies and those of Musselwhite Mine that could have a material impact on the pro forma financial statements.
Material differences identified are discussed in note 6.

 

2.
Acquisition of Musselwhite Mine

 

Under the terms of the Share Purchase
Agreement, Orla acquired all the outstanding shares of a newly created wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Corporation that owns a 100%
interest in the Musselwhite Mine in northern Ontario (the "Transaction").

 

Consideration for the purchase consisted
of an upfront payment of $810 million and up to $40 million in contingent consideration. The upfront payment consists of:

 

·$150 million available on the Company’s
existing revolving credit facility (the “RCF”) and a $100 million term loan (the “Term Loan” and together with
the RCF, the “Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of lenders;

 

·$360 million gold prepayment (the “Gold
Prepayment”) from a syndicate of lenders; and

 

·$200 million in senior unsecured convertible
notes (the “Convertible Notes”).

 

The contingent consideration consists
of:

 

·$20 million to be paid if the average spot price
of gold exceeds $2,900/oz for the initial one-year period following closing of the Transaction; and

 

·$20 million to be paid if the average spot price
of gold exceeds $3,000/oz for the second full year period following closing of the Transaction.

 

 – page B-3 –
 
 

 

ORLA MINING LTD.

PRO FORMA CONDENSED INCOME
STATEMENT

(Figures in tables are expressed
in thousands of US dollars)

 

For
the year ended December 31, 2024 (Unaudited)

 

3.
FINANCING COMPONENTS

 

The pro forma income statement gives
effect to the following adjustments.

 

a. Credit Facility

 

The Term Loan has a three-year term
with no principal payments during the first two quarters, following which the Term Loan will be repaid in quarterly installments of $5
million, with the balance repaid at maturity. Maturity is August 27, 2027. Orla has the ability to repay the Credit Facility in full,
without penalties, at any time prior to the maturity date. Interest, covenants and other terms of the Credit Facility are substantially
the same as the Company’s existing RCF. The interest rate is based on the term Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR")
plus an applicable margin ranging from 2.50% to 3.75% based on the Company’s leverage ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter, provided
that for the first two quarters there will be a minimum margin of 3.0%. The Credit Facility was completed in connection with closing of
the Transaction.

 

Effect on pro
forma income statement

 

For the purposes of the pro forma income
statement for the year ended December 31, 2024, interest and accretion expense on the Credit Facility was approximately $18,750,000.

 

b. Gold Prepayment

 

Under the $360 million Gold Prepayment,
the Company has the obligation to deliver a set number of gold ounces over a three-year term in exchange for $360 million in cash upfront.
Approximately 145,000 ounces will be delivered over three years subsequent to Closing. The Gold Prepayment was completed in connection
with the Transaction.

 

Effect on pro
forma income statement

 

For the purposes of this pro forma,
the Gold Prepayment is accreted using an effective interest rate of 4%.

 

Pursuant to the Gold Prepayment, revenue
from gold ounces delivered under the agreement will be recognized at the prices agreed within the Gold Prepayment. Revenues could be materially
different than those presented here.

 

For the purposes of the pro forma income
statement for the year ended December 31, 2024, interest and accretion expense for the Gold Prepayment was approximately $12,600,000.

 

c. Convertible Notes and Warrants

 

Convertible Notes

 

Concurrent with the Transaction, the
Company issued Convertible Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $200 million, with the following terms:

 

·Interest Rate: 4.5% per annum, payable in cash.

 

·Maturity: 5 years from the date of issuance.

 

·Conversion Right: The Convertible Notes may be
converted in full or in part at any time prior to the maturity date, by the holder thereof, into common shares (the “Shares”)
of Orla.

 

·Conversion Price: The conversion price of the
Convertible Notes is CAD$7.90 per Share (the “Conversion Price”), subject to standard anti-dilution adjustments.

 

·Redemption Right: After the 18-month anniversary
of the issuance, the Company may redeem the Convertible Notes, provided that the 20-day volume weighted average price of the Shares is
not less than 130% of the Conversion Price. Upon redemption, the Convertible Notes will convert into common shares of the Company at the
Conversion Price.

 

 – page B-4 –
 
 

 

ORLA MINING LTD.

PRO FORMA CONDENSED INCOME
STATEMENT

(Figures in tables are expressed
in thousands of US dollars)

 

For
the year ended December 31, 2024 (Unaudited)

 

The Acquisition caused the Company’s
functional currency to change to US dollars. As a result, we split the $200 million of convertible notes in the Company’s accounts
into four components as follows:

 

 
 Amount 
 Component 
 Initial recognition
 
 $50,000 
 Warrants 
 Estimated fair value
 
 167,000 
 Host liability 
 Fair value of the host debt, calculated as the present value of the contractual principal and interest payments over the term of the notes, using a discount rate of 8.5%.
 
 (18,000) 
 Company’s redemption right 
 Estimated fair value
 
 1,000 
 Holders’ conversion right 
 Residual
 
 $200,000 
 
 
 

 

For the purposes of this pro forma,
the host liability is accreted using an effective interest rate of 10.2%.

 

For the purposes of the pro forma income
statement for the year ended December 31, 2024, the interest expense on the host liability portion of the convertible notes was $14,528,000.

 

On Closing, each holder of the Convertible
Notes received, for each Share issuable upon conversion thereof, 0.66 common share purchase warrants (the “Warrants”) to acquire
Shares. The Warrants have an exercise price of CAD$11.50 per Share and expire on the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Private Placement.

 

We estimated the fair value of the warrants
at $50 million using a Black Scholes model.

 

The warrants and the redemption right
are financial instruments which are marked to fair value at each reporting date. The fair value of each is highly dependent on the Company’s
stock price, its volatility, and the C$/US$ exchange rate. Large movements in these financial instruments is possible, and will materially
affect earnings.

 

4. CONSIDERATION
GIVEN AND NET ASSETS ACQUIRED

 

The Acquisition is accounted for as
business combination under IFRS 3 «Business Combinations».

 

a. Consideration given

 

 
 Consideration: 
 
 
 Upfront cash consideration 
 $810,000 
 
 Contingent consideration 
 18,000 
 
 Consideration 
 $828,000 
 

 

 – page B-5 –
 
 

 

ORLA MINING LTD.

PRO FORMA CONDENSED INCOME
STATEMENT

(Figures in tables are expressed
in thousands of US dollars)

 

For
the year ended December 31, 2024 (Unaudited)

 

 
 Net assets acquired 
 
 
 Assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
 
 
 Trade and other receivables 
 $6,838 
 
 Stockpile inventory 
 307 
 
 Metal in process inventory 
 8,481 
 
 Finished goods inventory 
 7,526 
 
 Materials and supplies inventory 
 19,600 
 
 Property, plant, and equipment 
 1,088,274 
 
 Trade payables and accrued liabilities 
 (26,323)
 
 Other current liabilities 
 (24,786)
 
 Provisions - long term 
 (79,000)
 
 Other long term liabilities 
 (302)
 
 Deferred tax liabilities 
 (173,246)
 
 Other long term assets 
 631 
 
 Net assets acquired 
 $828,000 
 

 

As of the date of these pro forma financial
statements, we have not yet completed a detailed valuation of the assets and liabilities of Musselwhite Mine, and therefore the fair values
of the net assets acquired are not yet determined. For the purposes of these pro forma financial statements we have used carrying values,
other than for (a) metal in process and finished goods inventory, for which we estimated fair values, and (b) property, plant
and equipment.

 

The fair values of each of the net assets
acquired will be materially different from those presented here.

 

b. Income statement effects

 

(i) Cost of sales

 

For the purposes of the pro forma income
statement for the year ended December 31, 2024, the increased book value of metal in process inventory would have increased Cost
of sales – operating costs by $5,257,000.

 

(ii) Cost of sales

 

For the purposes of the pro forma income
statement for the year ended December 31, 2024, the increased book value of property, plant and equipment would have increased Cost
of sales – DD&A by $13,492,000.

 

(iii) Deferred tax expense

 

For the purposes of the pro forma income
statement for the year ended December 31, 2024, the increased book value of property, plant and equipment arising from deferred taxes
at acquisition would have increased deferred tax expense by $14,110,000.

 

5. TRANSACTION
COSTS

 

These pro forma statements assume that
cash expenses of the Acquisition are approximately $12 million.

 

6. ACCOUNTING
POLICY DIFFERENCES

 

Orla reports in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS”), while Musselwhite reports
in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“US GAAP”). The Company has done a preliminary
assessment of differences and has identified that there are differences in how (1) asset retirement liabilities, and (2) employee
severance accruals, are accounted for. These differences had no effect on the pro forma income statement presented.

 

Neither of these two differences in
US GAAP vs IFRS had a material effect on the pro forma income statement.

 

 – page B-6 –
 
 

 

ORLA MINING LTD.

PRO FORMA CONDENSED INCOME
STATEMENT

(Figures in tables are expressed
in thousands of US dollars)

 

For
the year ended December 31, 2024 (Unaudited)

 

7.
Musselwhite Mine statements of income (loss)

 

The following table summarizes Musselwhite’s
unaudited statement of income for year ended December 31, 2024.

 

 
 
 Year ended December 31, 2024 
 
 Sales 
 515,957 
 
 
 
 
 Costs applicable to sales 
 225,394 
 
 Depreciation and amortization 
 121,510 
 
 Reclamation 
 3,394 
 
 Exploration 
 6,998 
 
 Advanced projects, research and development 
 2,283 
 
 General and administrative 
 12,065 
 
 Impairment charges 
 477 
 
 Other expenses net 
 1,256 
 
 Other income net 
 (3,095)
 
 Net income (loss) before taxes 
 145,675 
 
 Income and mining tax expense 
 30,326 
 
 Net income (loss) for the year 
 115,349 
 

 

We reclassified certain of these accounts,
on the pro forma income statement, to conform to the account groupings used by Orla Mining Ltd.

 

 
 As presented in the income statement of Musselwhite Mine Ltd 
 
 
 
 Exploration 
 $6,998 
 $— 
 
 Projects, research& development 
 2,283 
 — 
 
 Reclamation 
 — 
 3,394 
 
 Other income net 
 — 
 (3,095)
 
 
 $9,281 
 $299 
 
 
 
 
 
 As presented in the pro forma income statement 
 
 
 
 Exploration and advanced projects 
 $9,281 
 
 
 Other gains and losses 
 
 $299 
 

 

 – page B-7 –