EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED AUGUST 5, 2025

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

News Release 

 

Orla Mining Provides Update on Pit Wall Event
at Camino Rojo

Action plan in place to resume
in-pit access, annual guidance updated 

VANCOUVER, BC, Aug. 5, 2025 /CNW/ - Orla Mining
Ltd. (TSX: OLA) (NYSE: ORLA) ("Orla" or the "Company") is providing a status update on the recent pit wall event
that occurred at its Camino Rojo Oxide Mine in Zacatecas, Mexico.

Summary Detail

•Pit wall event: Camino Rojo experienced an uncontrolled
material movement on the north wall on July 23rd resulting in no injuries or equipment damage.

•Assessment: A geotechnical assessment, supported by
third party consultants, has been ongoing which has informed an action plan and safe restart of mining.

•North wall stabilization: A 50-80 metre pushback of
the north wall is planned, with a redesigned slope and continuous monitoring to ensure safe operating conditions. Approximately 9.0 Mt
of predominantly oxidized material (1:0.9 strip ratio, 0.74 g/t au) is expected to be removed and then crushed and stacked on the heap
leach from the north wall.

•No material was lost or sterilized in the pit wall event
but rather the update to 2025 guidance is attributed to a deferral of production at Camino Rojo due to grade and recovery mix.

"While the north wall event at Camino Rojo
was a temporary setback, it has reinforced the importance of our pit wall monitoring, technical planning, risk management, and operational
discipline. The team onsite acted quickly before the event to ensure safety. Following the event, our broader team, supported by expert
consultants, rapidly implemented a comprehensive action plan that prioritizes safety, reinforces slope stability, and allows for continued
operations in Mexico, important for all stakeholders."

- Jason Simpson, President and Chief Executive Officer
of Orla

Pit Wall Event Context

As reported on July 23, 2025, and updated on July
24, 2025, Camino Rojo experienced an uncontrolled material movement along the temporary north wall of the open pit. Importantly, there
were no injuries, equipment damage, or environmental impacts resulting from the event. Ramp access to the pit remained intact; however,
open pit mining operations were temporarily suspended while the Company undertook a geotechnical assessment to support a safe action plan
and restart of in-pit mining activities.

Geotechnical Assessment

Orla, with support from external consultants, has
been conducting a comprehensive geotechnical assessment of the pit wall event to determine its root cause, to assess the stability of
the surrounding area, and to establish an action plan. Findings have informed the action plan and updates to standard operating procedures
within the pit to ensure safety. The material movement was bounded by two faults acting as release features from increased pore pressure
due to rainfall and the steepness of the interwall angle.

Action Plan and Open Pit Mining Restart

The current action plan includes mining from surface
downwards to push-back and stabilize of the entire north wall to re-establish safe working conditions on the north side of the pit. The
north wall will be re-established at a lower overall slope at single 10 metre benches based on a design that reduces the risk of over
toppling. Continuous monitoring of the north wall will be undertaken with the slope stability radar, already in place, by the operational
team and supported by external experts. Additionally, Trigger Action Response Plans (TARPs) will be strengthened to provide additional
safety measures while the work is being completed.

The material removed from the north wall section of
the pit is predominantly oxidized, with an ore-to-waste strip ratio of 1:0.9 and an anticipated average gold grade of 0.74 g/t. This ore
material will be crushed and stacked on the heap leach over the coming months. The current expectation is to push back approximately 50-80
metres from the edge of the existing pit wall, which is anticipated to result in the removal of approximately 9.0 million tonnes which
will be crushed and stacked on the heap leach.

Guidance Update

Since the pit wall event on July 23, Camino Rojo has
continued to crush and stack stockpiled material at a rate of approximately 20,000 tonnes per day (in addition to 20,000 tonnes per day
being truck stacked), to mitigate the short-term impact on production. Based on the current action plan and Camino Rojo's updated pit
sequencing, Orla's annual production, cash costs, and all-in sustaining cost ("AISC") guidance has been updated and is shown
below.

 
 Consolidated
 
 Initial Guidance 
 Revised Guidance
 
 Gold Production
 
 
 
 
 Camino Rojo
 
 110 - 120
 95 - 105
 
 Musselwhite 
 
 170 - 180
 170 - 180
 
 Total Gold Production
 Koz
 280 - 300
 265 - 285
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total Cash Cost1 (net of by-product) 
 
 
 
 
 Camino Rojo
 
 $625 - $725
 $800 - $900
 
 Musselwhite - April to December
 
 $1,000 - $1,200
 $1,000 - $1,200
 
 Total Cash Cost (Net of by-product)1 
 $/oz sold
 $850 - $1,050
 $900 - $1,100
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AISC1 - Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 Camino Rojo
 
 $700 - $800
 $850 - $950
 
 Musselwhite - April to December
 
 $1,550 - $1,750
 $1,550 - $1,750
 
 AISC1 
 $/oz sold
 $1,300 - $1,500
 $1,350 - $1,550
 
 1 Cash cost and AISC include 9 months of production and costs from Musselwhite, and full year from Camino Rojo and Corporate G&A (inclusive of share-based compensation). Cash costs and AISC are non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the Non-GAAP section of this news release for further detail.
 
About Orla Mining Ltd.

Orla's corporate strategy is to acquire, develop,
and operate mineral properties where the Company's expertise can substantially increase stakeholder value. The Company has three material
projects, consisting of two operating mines and one development project, all 100% owned by the Company: (1) Camino Rojo, in Zacatecas
State, Mexico, an operating gold and silver open-pit and heap leach mine. The property covers over 139,000 hectares which contains a large
oxide and sulphide mineral resource, (2) Musselwhite Mine, in Northwestern Ontario, Canada, an underground gold mine that has been in
operation for over 25 years and produced over 6 million ounces of gold, with a long history of resource growth and conversion, and (3)
South Railroad, in Nevada, United States, a feasibility-stage, open pit, heap leach gold project located on the Carlin trend in Nevada.
The technical reports for the Company's material projects are available on Orla's website at www.orlamining.com, and on SEDAR+ and EDGAR
under the Company's profile at www.sedarplus.ca and www.sec.gov, respectively.

Qualified Persons Statement

The scientific and technical information in this news
release was reviewed and approved by Mr. J. Andrew Cormier, P. Eng., Chief Operating Officer of the Company, who is the Qualified Person
as defined under NI 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects.

NON-GAAP MEASURES

We have included herein certain performance measures
("non-GAAP measures") which are not specified, defined, or determined under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). 
These non-GAAP measures are common performance measures in the gold mining industry, but because they do not have any mandated standardized
definitions, they may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other issuers. Accordingly, we use such measures to provide
additional information, and you should not consider them in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance
with GAAP. 

CASH COST AND ALL-IN SUSTAINING COST

Cash cost per ounce is calculated by dividing
the sum of operating costs and royalty costs, net of by-product silver credits, by ounces of gold sold. All-in Sustaining
Cost is intended to reflect all the expenditures that are required to produce an ounce of gold from operations. While there
is no standardized meaning of the measure across the industry, the Company's definition conforms to the all-in sustaining cost definition
as set out by the World Gold Council in its guidance. 

Forward-looking Statements

This news release contains certain "forward-looking
information" and "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Canadian securities legislation and within the meaning
of Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the United States Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, or in releases made by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission,
all as may be amended from time to time, including, without limitation, statements regarding the impact of the pit wall event on the Company's
operations; the Company's estimates of material to be removed from the north wall of the pit, including the strip ratio, expected grade,
the stacking of such material on the heap leach over the coming months, tonnage, and the extent of the pushback; the Company's revised
2025 guidance, including production and AISC; and the Company's goals and objectives. Forward-looking statements are statements that are
not historical facts which address events, results, outcomes or developments that the Company expects to occur. Forward-looking statements
are based on the beliefs, estimates and opinions of the Company's management on the date the statements are made and they involve a number
of risks and uncertainties. Certain material assumptions regarding such forward-looking statements were made, including without limitation,
assumptions regarding: the impact of the pit wall event on the Company's operations at Camino Rojo and the Company's ability to remediate
the same; the future price of gold and silver; anticipated costs and the Company's ability to fund its programs; the Company's ability
to carry on exploration, development, and mining activities; the Company's ability to successfully integrate the Musselwhite Mine; tonnage
of ore to be mined and processed; ore grades and recoveries; decommissioning and reclamation estimates; currency exchange rates remaining
as estimated; prices for energy inputs, labour, materials, supplies and services remaining as estimated; the Company's ability to secure
and to meet obligations under property agreements, including the layback agreement with Fresnillo plc; that all conditions of the Company's
credit facility will be met; the timing and results of drilling programs; mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates and the assumptions
on which they are based; the discovery of mineral resources and mineral reserves on the Company's mineral properties; that political and
legal developments will be consistent with current expectations; the timely receipt of required approvals and permits, including those
approvals and permits required for successful project permitting, construction, and operation of projects; the timing of cash flows; the
costs of operating and exploration expenditures; the Company's ability to operate in a safe, efficient, and effective manner; the Company's
ability to obtain financing as and when required and on reasonable terms; that the Company's activities will be in accordance with the
Company's public statements and stated goals; and that there will be no material adverse change or disruptions affecting the Company or
its properties. Consequently, there can be no assurances that such statements will prove to be accurate and actual results and future
events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Forward-looking statements involve significant known and unknown
risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. These risks include, but are not
limited to: uncertainty and variations in the estimation of mineral resources and mineral reserves; risks related to the Company's indebtedness
and gold prepayment; risks related to exploration, development, and operation activities; foreign country and political risks, including
risks relating to foreign operations; tailings risks; reclamation costs; delays in obtaining or failure to obtain governmental permits,
or non-compliance with permits; environmental and other regulatory requirements; loss of, delays in, or failure to get access from surface
rights owners; uncertainties related to title to mineral properties; water rights; risks related to natural disasters, terrorist acts,
health crises, and other disruptions and dislocations; financing risks and access to additional capital; risks related to guidance estimates
and uncertainties inherent in the preparation of feasibility studies; uncertainty in estimates of production, capital, and operating costs
and potential production and cost overruns; the fluctuating price of gold and silver; risks related to the Cerro Quema Project; unknown
labilities in connection with acquisitions; global financial conditions; uninsured risks; climate change risks; competition from other
companies and individuals; conflicts of interest; risks related to compliance with anti-corruption laws; volatility in the market price
of the Company's securities; assessments by taxation authorities in multiple jurisdictions; foreign currency fluctuations; the Company's
limited operating history; litigation risks; the Company's ability to identify, complete, and successfully integrate acquisitions; intervention
by non-governmental organizations; outside contractor risks; risks related to historical data; the Company not having paid a dividend;
risks related to the Company's foreign subsidiaries; risks related to the Company's accounting policies and internal controls; the Company's
ability to satisfy the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; enforcement of civil liabilities; the Company's status as a passive
foreign investment company (PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes; information and cyber security; the Company's significant shareholders;
gold industry concentration; shareholder activism; other risks associated with executing the Company's objectives and strategies; as well
as those risk factors discussed in the Company's most recently filed management's discussion and analysis, as well as its annual information
form dated March 18, 2025, which are available on www.sedarplus.ca and www.sec.gov. Except as required by the securities disclosure laws
and regulations applicable to the Company, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements if management's
beliefs, estimates or opinions, or other factors, should change.

SOURCE Orla Mining Ltd.

 

View original content to download multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/August2025/05/c4392.html

%CIK: 0001680056

For further information: For further information, please contact:
Jason Simpson, President & Chief Executive Officer; Andrew Bradbury, Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate Development,
www.orlamining.com, investor@orlamining.com

CO: Orla Mining Ltd.

CNW 06:00e 05-AUG-25