EX-99.1
2
ex99-1.htm
PRESS RELEASE

 

 

ETFS Silver Trust 8-K

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 PRESS
 RELEASE
 

 

For
immediate release 

April
27, 2018

 

ABERDEEN
STANDARD INVESTMENTS BROADENS U.S. BUSINESS WITH ADDITION OF ETF SECURITIES U.S.

 

Aberdeen
Standard Investments (ASI) today announced that it has acquired the U.S. business of specialist commodity Exchange Traded
Product (ETP) provider ETF Securities.

 

The
in-fill acquisition, for an undisclosed amount, further broadens ASI’s suite of investment capabilities with the addition
of a range of commodity-based Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs). It also provides the platform and expertise to enable ASI to grow
its existing Smart Beta capability by launching strategies within an ETF vehicle structure. This means ASI is now able to offer
investment solutions across all vehicle types, strengthening its ability to meet the evolving, bespoke needs of clients.

 

Chris
Demetriou, Chief Executive-Americas at Aberdeen Standard Investments commented:

“The
needs of our clients are evolving, and we need to be able to offer the full range of solutions to our clients. For some, active
solutions will be right and, for others, passive and Smart Beta options will be the solution. ASI has been offering passive, quant
and Smart Beta solutions to clients for some years now, managing over $84 billion in assets in these strategies. The expansion
of our capabilities into the ETF space shows our commitment to providing the largest range of solutions to our clients in the
U.S.” 

 

The
specific funds being acquired are: ETFS Bloomberg All Commodity Strategy K-1 Free ETF (BCI), ETFS Bloomberg All Commodity Longer
Dated Strategy K-1 Free ETF (BCD), ETFS Bloomberg Energy Commodity Longer Dated Strategy K-1 Free ETF (BEF), ETFS Physical Swiss
Gold Shares (SGOL), ETFS Physical Platinum Shares (PPLT), ETFS Physical Silver Shares (SIVR), ETFS Physical Precious Metals Basket
Shares (GLTR), ETFS Physical Palladium Shares (PALL).

 

ETF
Securities’ U.S. operations currently manage $2.8 billion as of April 26, 2018.

 

Ends

 

*Target
returns and income are not guaranteed to be achieved

 

 
 
 

 

 PRESS
 RELEASE
 

 

Media
enquiries: 

 

Katie
Cowley (U.S.)

215-405-2423

Katie.Cowley@aberdeenstandard.com

 

James
Thorneley (UK)

+44 (0)20 7463 6323

james.thorneley@aberdeenstandard.com

 

Notes
to editors 

●Aberdeen
Standard Investments has relationships with around 500 financial sponsors across approximately 1000 funds globally.

 

●Aberdeen
Standard Investments is a leading global asset manager dedicated to creating long-term value for our clients, and is a brand of
the investment businesses of Aberdeen Asset Management and Standard Life Investments.

 

●With
over 1,000 investment professionals we manage $684.6 billion* of assets worldwide. We have clients in 80 countries supported by
50 relationship offices. This ensures we are close to our clients and the markets in which they invest.

 

●We
are high-conviction; long-term investors who believe teamwork and collaboration are the key to delivering repeatable, superior
investment performance. We are resolute in our commitment to active asset management.

 

●Aberdeen
Standard Investments is the asset management business of Standard Life Aberdeen plc, one of the world’s largest investment
companies.

 

●Standard Life Aberdeen plc is headquartered in Scotland.
It has around 1.2 million shareholders and is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Standard Life Aberdeen group was formed
by the merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC on 14 August 2017.

 

*Standard
Life Aberdeen AUM/AUA is US$778.8 billion as of December 31, 2017.

 

Important
Information 

Aberdeen
Standard Investments is a brand of the investment businesses of Aberdeen Asset Management and Standard Life Investments. In the
United States, Aberdeen Standard Investments is the marketing name for the following affiliated, registered investment advisers:
Aberdeen Asset Management Inc., Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd., Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd., Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd.,
Aberdeen Asset Capital Management, LLC, Standard Life Investments (Corporate Funds) Ltd., and Standard Life Investments (USA)
Ltd.

 

ALPS
Distributors, Inc. is the marketing agent for ETFS Silver Trust, ETFS Gold Trust, ETFS Platinum Trust, ETFS Palladium Trust and
the ETFS Precious Metals Basket Trust. ALPS Distributors, Inc. is the distributor for ETFS Bloomberg All Commodity Longer Dated
Strategy K 1 Free ETF, ETFS Bloomberg All Commodity Strategy K 1 Free ETF and ETFS Bloomberg Energy Commodity Longer Dated Strategy
K 1 Free ETF.

 

Risk
Warnings: Exchange-traded securities may or may not be suitable for a particular investor. The price of exchange-traded securities
may go up or down and an investor may not get back the amount invested.

 

*Target
returns and income are not guaranteed to be achieved

 

 
 
 

 

 PRESS
 RELEASE
 

 

Exchange-traded
securities are priced in either US dollars or Euros and the value of the investment in other currencies will be affected by
exchange rate movements. To the extent exchange traded securities are traded in other currencies, their value may also be
affected by exchange rate movements. Futures trading is speculative and may result in losses.

 

Past
performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. Restricted Investors: The distribution of the Prospectus and the
offering, sale and delivery of exchange traded securities in certain jurisdictions may be restricted by law. Any subscription
for exchange traded securities should be made on the basis of the Prospectus.

 

Disclaimer:
Any investment in exchange traded securities carries with it certain risks, including those risks set out in the Prospectus.
You should obtain your own independent financial, taxation and legal advice before making any decisions about any investment
in exchange traded securities. This information is not an offer for exchange traded securities and should not be used as the
basis for any investment decision.

 

The
Prospectuses for the exchange traded securities can be downloaded from www.etfsus.com

 

This
information does not constitute financial product advice. There are risks associated with investing including possible loss
of principal. 

 

ALPS
is not affiliated with ETF Securities or Aberdeen

 

*Target
returns and income are not guaranteed to be achieved