EX-99.1
2
dex991.htm
PRESS RELEASE

Press release

 

 EXHIBIT 99.1 

 
 Telephone 415 597 2000 400 Howard Street San Francisco, CA 94105 www.barclaysglobal.com
 Press Release For Immediate Release BARCLAYS ENTERS INTO AGREEMENT TO SELL BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS INTERNATIONAL INC. TO BLACKROCK, INC. 
 San Francisco, CA, June 19, 2009 - On June 16, 2009, the Board of Directors of Barclays PLC
(“Barclays”), the ultimate parent company of Barclays Global Investors International, Inc., the sponsor (the “Sponsor”) of the iShares® Silver Trust (the “Trust”), accepted a binding offer and entered into an agreement to sell its interests in the Sponsor and certain affiliated companies to
BlackRock, Inc. (the “BlackRock Transaction”). The BlackRock Transaction is subject to certain regulatory approvals, as well as other conditions to closing. The previously announced agreement, providing for the sale by Barclays of its
interests in the Sponsor and certain affiliated companies to a holding company of CVC Capital Partners Group SICAV-FIS S.A. was terminated in connection with the BlackRock Transaction. It is not expected that the BlackRock Transaction will materially affect the Trust, its shareholders, or an investment in its shares. Contacts for Press: 

Lance Berg
 
415.597.2045
 
lance.berg@barclaysglobal.com

Christine Hudacko
 
415.597.2687
 
christine.hudacko@barclaysglobal.com
 All Other Inquiries: www.ishares.com or 1-800-iSHARES (1-800-474-2737) Investing involves risk, including possible loss of principal. The iShares Silver
Trust (“Trust”) is not an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or a commodity pool for purposes of the Commodity Exchange Act. Shares of the Trust are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as
mutual funds. Because shares of the iShares Silver Trust are expected to reflect the price of the silver held by the Trust, the market price of the shares will be as unpredictable as the price of silver has historically been. Additionally, shares of
the Trust are bought and sold at market price (not NAV). Brokerage commissions will reduce returns. Shares of the Trust are created to reflect,
at any given time, the market price of silver owned by the trust at that time less the trust’s expenses and liabilities. The price received upon the sale of shares of the Trust, which trade at market price, may be more or less than the value of
the silver represented by them. If an investor sells the shares at a time when no active market for them exists, such lack of an active market will most likely adversely affect the price received for the shares. For a more complete discussion of
risk factors relative to the Trust, carefully read the prospectus. 

 

 Following an investment in the iShares Silver Trust, several factors may have the effect of causing a decline in the
prices of silver and a corresponding decline in the price of the shares. Among them: (i) a change in economic conditions, such as a recession, can adversely affect the price of silver. Silver is used in a wide range of industrial applications,
and an economic downturn could have a negative impact on its demand and, consequently, its price and the price of the iShares. (ii) a significant change in the attitude of speculators and investors towards silver. Should the speculative
community take a negative view towards silver, a decline in world silver prices could occur, negatively impacting the price of the shares. (iii) a significant increase in silver price hedging activity by silver producers. Traditionally, silver
producers have not hedged to the same extent as other producers of precious metals (gold, for example) do. Should there be an increase in the level of hedge activity of silver producing companies, it could cause a decline in world silver prices,
adversely affecting the price of the shares. The amount of silver represented by shares of the iShares Silver Trust will decrease over the life of the
trust due to sales necessary to pay the sponsor’s fee and trust expenses. Without increase in the price of silver sufficient to compensate for that decrease, the price of the shares will also decline, and investors will lose money on their
investment. The Trust will have limited duration. The liquidation of the Trust may occur at a time when the disposition of the trust’s silver will result in losses to investors. Although BGI believes that market makers will take advantage of differences between the NAV and the trading price of Trust shares through arbitrage opportunities, BGI cannot guarantee that they will do so. BGI cannot
guarantee an active trading market for the shares, which may result in losses on your investment at the time of disposition of your shares. The value of the shares of the Trust will be adversely affected if silver owned by the trust is lost or
damaged in circumstances in which the trust is not in a position to recover the corresponding loss. The Trust is a passive investment vehicle. This means that the value of your shares may be adversely affected by trust losses that, if the trust had
been actively managed, it might have been possible to avoid. Shares of the iShares Silver Trust are not deposits or other obligations of or guaranteed
by Barclays Global Investors, N.A. or its affiliates (“BGI”), and are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other governmental agency. Barclays Global Investors International, Inc. (BGII) is the sponsor of the iShares Silver Trust. When comparing
commodities and the iShares Silver Trust, it should be remembered that management fees associated with the Trust are not borne by investors in individual commodities. Buying and selling shares of the iShares Silver Trust will result in brokerage
commissions. Because the expenses involved in an investment in physical silver will be dispersed among all holders of shares of the Trust, an investment in the Trust may represent a cost-efficient alternative to investments in silver for investors
not otherwise able to participate directly in the market for physical silver. Although shares of the iShares Silver Trust may be bought or sold on the
exchange through any brokerage account, shares are not redeemable from the Trust except in large aggregated units called Baskets. © 2009 Barclays Global Investors N.A. All rights reserved. iShares ® is a registered trademark of Barclays
Global Investors N.A. All other trademarks, servicemarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.