EX-99.1
13
tm2015977d1_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

CERTIFICATE OF QUALIFIED COMPETENCY

The Chilean Comisi6n Calificadora de
Competencias en Recursos y Reservas Minerasl, certifies that Mr. Sergio Alarcon Rubilar, National Id. Nr
8.678.370;3, Geologist, is registered in the Public Registry of Competent Persons in Mining Resources and Reserves from
March 2012, under Nr. 0164, with specialization in Geology, and that her competencies and experience as a Competent Person
allow her to inform and report on mineral resources and reserves

The Chilean Mining Commission issued this
certificate at the request of Mr. Alarcon to present:

UNITED STATES - SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 20-F, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019

Information:

a.The Certificate of Qualified Competency proves the validity of the party's competencies
to inform or report about a specific matter or subject in the contest of mining resources and reserves in accordance with the competencies
and experience of a Competent Person.

b.Law No. 20.235. Article 18o; For the preparation of the technical and public
reports, the Competent Persons must adhere strictly to the rules, regulations, criteria and procedures established in the Code,
and likewise to all other rules of technical character that the Mining Commission enacts using their legal faculties.”

c.Application of CH 20.235 code and use of this certificate is the sole responsibility of
the person concerned, according to the technical criteria and ethical standards set forth in Law No. 20,235.

d. For all
legal purposes, the Certificate of Good Standing shall be valid only for the management requested

1The Comision Calificadora
de Competencias en Recursos y Reservas Mineras is a member of the Committee for Mineral Reserves International Reporting Standard,
(CRIRSCO) that group, the organizations Australia (JORC). Brasil (CBRR), Canada (CIM / NI 43-1011), Columbia (CCRR). Chile (Comision
Minera CH20235), EEUU (SME).Europa (PERC), India (NACRI). Indonesia (KCMI), Kazakhstan (KAZRC), Mongolia (MPIGM), Russia (OERN),
Sud Africa (SAMCODES) and Turquia (UMREK). which respond to a common international ruling to inform and report exploration prospects,
mining resources and reserves.