EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

Exhibit 99.1

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX: SLW 
 
 November 4, 2013 
 NYSE: SLW 
SILVER WHEATON EXPANDS PRECIOUS METAL STREAM ONTHE
CONSTANCIA PROJECT TO INCLUDE GOLD 
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp.
(“Silver Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) is pleased to
announce that it has agreed to acquire from Hudbay Minerals Inc. (“Hudbay”)
(TSX:HBM) (NYSE:HBM) 50% of the life of mine gold production from its Constancia
Project (“Constancia”), located in southern Peru, for US$135 million. Silver
Wheaton’s August 2012 silver stream purchase agreement (“Original Agreement”)
for 100% of the life of mine silver production from Constancia has now been
amended to include 50% of the life of mine gold production (“New Agreement”).

TRANSACTION HIGHLIGHTS 
Adds to Silver Wheaton’s growth profile 

 Silver Wheaton will receive 50% of the life of mine gold production from
 Constancia.
 Forecast average annual attributable gold production1 from
 Constancia is anticipated to be approximately 35,000 gold ounces over the
 first five years, and 18,000 ounces life of mine. The mine life is currently
 estimated at around 16 years. 
Aligns the interests of both companies 

 Hudbay will retain 50% of gold production.
 Timing of the upfront payment is linked to Constancia’s capital
 expenditures. 
Maintains conservative balance sheet

 Silver Wheaton has the option to make the initial upfront payment in
 either cash or Silver Wheaton shares, calculated at the time the payment is
 made2. 
Updating production guidance 

 Silver Wheaton has revised 2017 guidance to reflect recent developments.
 2017 guidance is now forecast to be 42.5 million silver equivalent
 ounces3 including 210 thousand ounces of gold.
 2013 silver equivalent production is still expected to exceed 33.5 million
 ounces3 including 145 thousand ounces of gold. 
 
______________________________1 Forecast gold
production attributable to Silver Wheaton is based on fixed recoveries as
defined in the New Agreement and the most recent mine plan but before payable
gold terms. 2 If Silver Wheaton shares are used, the number of
common shares will be calculated based on the volume weighted average trading
price of the Company on the Toronto Stock Exchange for the ten consecutive
trading days immediately prior to the date the consideration is
payable.3 Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a
gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1. 

- 2 - 
“We are very encouraged by Constancia’s development and the
inclusion of Pampacancha into the mine plan,” said Randy Smallwood, Silver
Wheaton’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “Given the higher gold grades
present in the Pampacancha deposit, we see this gold stream as an economic
opportunity for both parties. Hudbay has proven to be a strong partner both in
Canada and in Peru, where we believe they are setting the standard for building
strong social license in South America. This gold stream, our second precious
metal stream on Constancia, clearly demonstrates the win-win nature of our
agreements and further endorses the competitiveness of Silver Wheaton's
streaming model.”
TRANSACTION DETAILS 
Silver Wheaton, through its wholly owned subsidiary Silver
Wheaton (Caymans) Ltd., has agreed to acquire 50% of the life of mine gold
production from Hudbay’s Constancia Project, which includes the recently
delineated Pampacancha deposit. The Company will pay a wholly owned subsidiary
of Hudbay an initial consideration of US$135 million once US$1.35 billion in
capital expenditure has been incurred at Constancia. Silver Wheaton has the
option to make the initial consideration in either cash or Silver Wheaton
shares, with the number of shares determined at the time the payment is
made1. In addition, Silver Wheaton will make ongoing payments of the
lesser of US$400 per ounce of gold2 (subject to an inflationary
adjustment of 1% beginning in the fourth year after completion is achieved) or
the prevailing market price per ounce of gold delivered.
Recovery rates for gold have been fixed given the early nature
of the metallurgical test work on gold recoveries from the Pampacancha deposit.
Recoveries will be set at 55% for the Constancia deposit and 70% for the
Pampacancha deposit until the Company’s portion of gold reserves3 has
been delivered to Silver Wheaton, after which actual recoveries will be
applied.
The gold stream will be subject to the existing completion test
that was laid out in the Original Agreement. The Constancia completion test
requires Hudbay to complete the Constancia processing plant to at least 90% of
expected throughput and silver recovery by December 31, 2016. If Hudbay fails to
satisfy the requirements of the completion test, Silver Wheaton will be entitled
to continued delivery of 100% of the gold production from Hudbay’s 777 mine. If
the completion test has not been satisfied by December 31, 2020, Silver Wheaton
will be entitled to a proportionate return of the upfront cash consideration
relating to Constancia. In addition, Silver Wheaton will be entitled to
additional compensation in respect of the gold stream should there be a delay in
achieving completion or mining the Pampacancha deposit beyond the end of 2018.

 
______________________________1 If
Silver Wheaton shares are used, the number of common shares will be calculated
based on the volume weighted average trading price of the Company on the Toronto
Stock Exchange for the ten consecutive trading days immediately prior to the
date the consideration is payable.2 Ongoing payment reset after
40 years to $550 per ounce of gold, increasing by 1% per year thereafter. 

3
In the New Agreement, recoveries will be fixed until Silver Wheaton
receives 265 thousand payable ounces of gold.

- 3 - 
UPDATED PRODUCTION GUIDANCE 
Silver Wheaton is revising its five year production guidance
given recent developments. In 2017, annual attributable production is
anticipated to increase by 45% compared to 2012 levels, growing to approximately 42.5 million silver equivalent
ounces1, including 210,000 ounces of gold. This is a decrease of 13%
from previous 2017 production guidance primarily due to a delay at Barrick Gold
Corp.’s Pascua-Lama project partially offset by the additional gold forecast to
be received from Constancia.
2013 silver equivalent production is still expected to exceed
33.5 million ounces. 
Production guidance is “forward-looking information”. See
“Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for material risks,
assumptions and important disclosure relating to such guidance. 
ABOUT CONSTANCIA PROJECT 
Constancia is located in an established mining district in the
province of Chumbivilcas in southern Peru. It is forecast to be a large,
low-cost and long-life open pit mine, producing copper, molybdenum, silver and
gold. With key environmental permits in place, strong community support, and
engineering and design work essentially complete, first production is
anticipated in the second half of 2014 and full production in 2015. Forecast
average annual gold production attributable to Silver Wheaton2 from
Constancia is anticipated to be approximately 35,000 gold ounces over the first
five years and 18,000 ounces life of mine. The mine life is currently estimated
at around 16 years. 
 
______________________________1
Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1
2 Forecast production attributable to Silver Wheaton is based on
fixed recoveries as defined in the New Agreement and the most recent mine plan.

- 4 - 
Silver Wheaton’s Reserves and Resources for Constancia Gold:

ATTRIBUTABLE RESERVES & RESOURCES TO SILVER WHEATON
(1,2,3,4,5,6,8,9,10) 

 
 Mine 
 Category 
 Tonnage 
 
 Mt 
 Grade 
 
 Au g/t 
 Contained 
 
 Au Moz 
 Process 
 
 Recovery(7) 
 % 
 
 Constancia (50%) 
 
 174.6 
 0.04 
 0.24 
 55% 
 
 
 Proven 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pampacancha (50%) 
 
 4.9 
 0.32 
 0.05 
 70% 
 
 Constancia (50%) 
 
 27.0 
 0.04 
 0.03 
 55% 
 
 
 Probable 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pampacancha
 (50%) 
 
 
 18.5
 
 0.28
 
 0.16
 
 70%
 
 
 Total 
 Proven & Probable 
 225.0 
 0.07 
 0.49 
 61% 
 
 Constancia (50%) 
 Measured 
 59.6 
 0.04 
 0.07 
 
 
 Constancia (50%) 
 Indicated 
 172.0 
 0.03 
 0.19 
 
 
 Total 
 Measured & Indicated 
 231.7 
 0.03
 
 0.26
 
 
 
 
 Constancia (50%) 
 
 109.5 
 0.03 
 0.11 
 
 
 
 Inferred 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pampacancha (50%) 
 
 2.0 
 0.21 
 0.01 
 
 
 Total 
 Inferred 
 111.5 
 0.03
 
 0.13
 
 
 
Notes: 

 
 1. 
 
 All Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources have been
 calculated in accordance with the CIM Standards and NI 43-101, or the
 AusIMM JORC equivalent.
 
 2. 
 
 Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources are reported above
 in millions of metric tonnes (“Mt”), grams per metric tonne (“g/t”) and
 millions of ounces (“Moz”).
 
 3. 
 
 The individual qualified persons (“QPs”), as defined by
 the NI 43-101, for the technical information contained in this document
 (including the Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates) are Neil
 Burns, M.Sc., P.Geo. (Vice President, Technical Services); Samuel Mah,
 M.A.Sc., P.Eng. (Senior Director, Project Evaluations), both employees of
 the Company (the “Company’s QPs”).
 
 4. 
 
 The Mineral Resources reported in the above tables are
 exclusive of Mineral Reserves.
 
 5. 
 
 Mineral Resources which are not Mineral Reserves do not
 have demonstrated economic viability.
 
 6. 
 
 Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources are based on
 information available to the Company as of the date of this document, and
 therefore will not reflect updates, if any after such date.
 
 
 a. 
 
 Resources for the Constancia and Pampacancha deposits are
 reported as of August 23, 2011 and April 2, 2012, respectively.
 
 
 b. 
 
 Reserves for both Constancia and Pampacancha deposits are
 reported as of August 8, 2012.
 
 7. 
 
 Process recoveries are the fixed percentages of gold in a
 saleable product (doré or concentrate) recovered from Constancia and
 Pampacancha mined ore at the applicable site process plant as per the
 Company’s Precious Metals Purchase Agreement.
 
 8. 
 
 Mineral Reserves and Resources are estimated using
 appropriate process recovery rates and commodity prices including $1,150
 per ounce gold.
 
 9. 
 
 The scientific and technical information in this document
 regarding Constancia and Pampacancha was sourced by the Company from
 Hudbay’s annual information Form filed on SEDAR (www.sedar.com) on March 28, 2013.
 
 10. 
 
 Gold is produced as a by-product metal; therefore, the
 economic cut-off applied to the reporting of gold Resources and Reserves
 will be influenced by changes in the commodity prices of other metals at
 the time.
Full Reserve and Resource tables are available on the Company’s
website, www.silverwheaton.com. Updated
Reserves and Resources incorporating year-end 2013 estimates will be included in
the Company’s 2013 AIF.
Mr. Neil Burns, Vice President of Technical Services, is a
“qualified person” as such term is defined under National Instrument 43-101, and
has reviewed and approved the information on mineral reserves and mineral
resources disclosed in this news release.

- 5 - 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

The information contained herein contains “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the
meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking
statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact,
include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of
silver or gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the
realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated
future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve
conversion rates, statements as to any future dividends, the ability to fund
outstanding commitments and continue to acquire accretive precious metal stream
interests and assessments of the impact and resolution of various legal and tax
matters. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the
use of forward-looking terminology such as “plans”, “expects” or “does not
expect”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”,
“intends”, “anticipates” or “does not anticipate”, or “believes”, or variations
of such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results
“may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved”.
Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties
and other factors that may cause the actual results, operations, level of
activity, performance or achievements of Silver Wheaton to be materially
different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements,
including but not limited to: fluctuations in the price of silver or gold; the
absence of control over mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases
silver and gold and risks related to these mining operations including risks
related to fluctuations in the price of the primary commodities mined at such
operations, actual results of mining and exploration activities, environmental,
economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the mining operations
are located and changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined;
differences in the interpretation or application of tax laws and regulations;
and the Company’s interpretation of, or compliance with, tax laws, is found to
be incorrect; as well as those factors discussed in the section entitled
“Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in Silver Wheaton's Annual
Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's
Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management
believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation
of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver and gold, no
material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining
operations will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance
with their public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, the
continuing ability to fund or obtain funding for outstanding commitments, the
ability to source and obtain accretive precious metal stream interests,
expectations regarding the resolution of legal and tax matters, and such other
assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted
to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be
other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove
to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements and are cautioned that actual outcomes may vary.
Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that
are included or incorporated by reference herein, except in accordance with
applicable securities laws. 
CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE REGARDING RESERVES AND RESOURCES

For further information on Mineral Reserves and Mineral
Resources and on Silver Wheaton more generally, readers should refer to Silver
Wheaton’s Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2012, and
other continuous disclosure documents filed by Silver Wheaton since January 1,
2013, available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
Silver Wheaton’s Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources are subject to the
qualifications and notes set forth therein. Mineral Resources which are not
Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. 
Cautionary Note to United States Investors Concerning
Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources: The
information contained herein uses the terms “Measured”, “Indicated” and
“Inferred” Mineral Resources. United States investors are advised that while
such terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them and expressly
prohibits U.S. registered companies from including such terms in their filings
with the SEC. “Inferred Mineral Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as
to their existence, and as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be
assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be
upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred
Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or other economic
studies. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any
part of Measured or Indicated Mineral Resources will ever be converted into
Mineral Reserves or that any exploration potential will ever be converted to any
category of Mineral Reserves or Mineral Resources. United States investors are
also cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral
Resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable. United States investors
are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Silver Wheaton’s Form 40-F, a
copy of which may be obtained from Silver Wheaton or from http://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml.

- 6 - 
For further information, please contact: 
Patrick Drouin Vice President, Investor RelationsSilver
Wheaton Corp. Tel: 1-800-380-8687 Email: info@silverwheaton.com
Website: www.silverwheaton.com