EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED JANUARY 9, 2025

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

Wheaton Precious Metals Announces Chief Financial
Officer Transition

VANCOUVER, BC, Jan. 9, 2025 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious
Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") today announced that Gary Brown will be stepping down
from his role as Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), effective March 31, 2025. As part of a planned leadership succession, Vincent
Lau, Wheaton's Vice President of Finance, will be appointed CFO and will join the senior leadership team.

A Fond Farewell to Gary Brown
Throughout his nearly 17 years of dedicated service, Mr. Brown has played an integral role in the Company's financial growth, strategic
direction, and risk management, all contributing to Wheaton's long-term success. Mr. Brown's legacy will be marked by a strong financial
foundation, a culture of excellence, and a focus on sustainable growth.

"Gary's strategic foresight, financial aptitude
and disciplined approach to risk management have been essential in establishing Wheaton as a leader in its sector, and he has played a
key role in driving Wheaton's industry-leading performance," said Randy Smallwood, President & Chief Executive Officer of Wheaton
Precious Metals. "Gary's commitment to developing a culture of excellence has shaped our financial stability and positioned us for
continued success. I am immensely grateful for his contribution and wish him all the best in this next chapter of life."

"It has been an honour and privilege to have
been a part of the Wheaton team since 2008," said Gary Brown. "Over my tenure with the Company, I have had the pleasure
of building and mentoring a highly motivated and qualified finance team that I am incredibly proud of, and who are well-prepared to continue
driving the Company's success under Vincent's capable leadership."

Announcing Vincent Lau as Incoming Chief Financial
Officer
Vincent has served as Wheaton's Vice President of Finance for 13 years, where he has managed the corporate finance and risk management
functions. Prior to joining Wheaton, Vincent held senior finance roles at CHC Helicopters and in KPMG's Transaction Services group based
in New York. Vincent holds the Chartered Professional Accountant and Chartered Financial Analyst designations and received a Bachelor
of Commerce degree from the University of British Columbia.

"For more than a decade, Vincent has been an
indispensable member of Wheaton's finance leadership team, and we are thrilled to welcome him to our senior leadership team" said
Randy Smallwood, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wheaton Precious Metals. "Vincent's deep financial acumen, coupled with
a forward-thinking approach to growth and risk management, will be invaluable as we continue to build on our successes."

About Wheaton Precious Metals
Wheaton is the world's premier precious metals streaming company with the highest-quality portfolio of long-life, low-cost assets.
Its business model offers investors commodity price leverage and exploration upside but with a much lower risk profile than a traditional
mining company. Wheaton delivers amongst the highest cash operating margins in the mining industry, allowing it to pay a competitive dividend
and continue to grow through accretive acquisitions. As a result, Wheaton has consistently outperformed gold and silver, as well as other
mining investments. Wheaton is committed to strong ESG practices and giving back to the communities where Wheaton and its mining partners
operate. Wheaton creates sustainable value through streaming for all of its stakeholders.

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-announces-chief-financial-officer-transition-302347489.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

 

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/January2025/09/c7592.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: For further information, please contact:
Wheaton Precious Metals: Emma Murray, Vice President, Investor Relations, Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 17:00e 09-JAN-25