EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED MARCH 12, 2026

 

 Exhibit
99.1

 

 

 

DIVIDEND DECLARATION - Wheaton Precious Metals
Announces Increase to Quarterly Dividend

VANCOUVER, BC, March 12, 2026 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious
Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has declared its
first quarterly cash dividend payment for 2026 of US$0.195 per common share, an 18% increase from the fourth quarterly cash dividend payment
for 2025 of US$0.165 per common share. The Company declared record dividends during 2025, totaling US$0.66 per common share.

The first quarterly cash dividend for 2026 will be
paid to holders of record of Wheaton common shares as of the close of business on March 31, 2026, and will be distributed on or about
April 10, 2026. The ex-dividend trading date is March 31, 2026.

The declaration, timing, amount and payment of future
dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an 'eligible dividend' for Canadian income tax
purposes.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company has previously implemented a Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRIP"). Participation in the DRIP is optional. For
the purposes of this quarterly dividend, the Company has elected to issue common shares under the DRIP through treasury at the Average
Market Price, as defined in the DRIP, without a discount.

The Company may, from time to time, in its discretion,
apply, change or eliminate any discount applicable to Treasury Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, or direct that such common shares
be purchased in Market Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, at the prevailing market price, any of which would be publicly announced.

The DRIP enrollment forms, including direct deposit,
are available for download on the Company's website at www.wheatonpm.com, in the 'Investors' section under the 'Shareholder information'
and 'Dividends' tabs.

Registered shareholders may also enroll in the DRIP
online through the plan agent's self-service web portal.

Beneficial shareholders should contact their financial
intermediary to arrange enrollment. All shareholders considering enrollment in the DRIP should carefully review the terms of the DRIP
and consult with their advisors as to the implications of enrollment in the DRIP.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning
the business, operations and financial performance of Wheaton. Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements
of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to future dividends. Forward-looking statements are subject
to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements
of Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements including risks discussed in
the section entitled "Description of the Business - Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR+ at
www.sedarplus.ca and Wheaton's Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2024 filed March 31, 2025 on file with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on EDGAR and the risks identified under "Risks and Uncertainties" in Wheaton's Management's Discussion and
Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2025, available on SEDAR+ and in Wheaton's Form 6-K to filed March 12, 2026. Forward-looking
statements are based on assumptions management currently believes to be reasonable, including (without limitation) that there will be
no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that estimations of future production from the mining operations and mineral
reserves and resources are accurate, that the mining operations from which Wheaton purchases precious metals will continue to operate,
that each party will satisfy their obligations in accordance with the precious metals purchase agreements and royalty agreements, and
that Wheaton's assessment of taxes payable is accurate. 

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dividend-declaration
- -wheaton-precious-metals-announces-increase-to-quarterly-dividend-302712793.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/March2026/12/c5093.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: For further information, please contact:
Emma Murray, Vice President, Investor Relations, Wheaton Precious Metals Corp., Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 17:00e 12-MAR-26