EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED MARCH 28, 2024

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

Wheaton Precious
Metals Provides Details of Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders and Files Form 40-F

VANCOUVER, BC, March
28, 2024 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") announces that its Form 40-F report
has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on EDGAR. The Company's 2023 audited financial statements,
along with its Form 40-F, are also available on the Company's website at www.wheatonpm.com.

Shareholders may also
receive a copy of Wheaton's audited financial statements, without charge, upon request to Wheaton's Investor Relations Department, Suite
3500, 1021 West Hastings St., Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6E 0C3 or to info@wheatonpm.com.

Annual and Special
Meeting of Shareholders

Wheaton is scheduled
to hold its Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders (the "Meeting") both virtually and at the offices of Cassels, Brock
& Blackwell LLP, Suite 2200 HSBC Building, 885 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Friday, May 10, 2024,
at 10:30 a.m. Pacific Time.

Wheaton has adopted
an online virtual Meeting platform and we encourage all of our shareholders to participate in the Meeting using this online platform.
All shareholders participating in our online virtual Meeting platform will be able to listen to the Meeting live, and for registered
shareholders or proxyholders (including non-registered shareholders who have appointed themselves as proxyholder), submit votes in real
time.

Registered shareholders
and duly appointed proxyholders who wish to participate in the online virtual Meeting may do so:

1.from
 their computer, by entering the following URL in their browser: https://virtual-meetings.tsxtrust.com/1596;

2.from
 their mobile device, by entering the following URL in their browser: https://virtual-meetings.tsxtrust.com/1596;

If you choose to participate
in the online virtual Meeting as a registered shareholder, you can log in to into the Meeting by:

1.Clicking
 "I have a control number" and entering your valid control number

2.Entering
 the password for the Meeting, which is: wheaton2024 (case sensitive)

Guests, including Beneficial
Shareholders who have not duly appointed themselves as a proxyholder, can log in to into the Meeting by clicking "I am a guest"
and completing the online form. Guests will be able to listen to the Meeting but will not be able to ask questions or vote.

Important technical
reminders for joining the Meeting and voting instructions will be made available on the Company's website at www.wheatonpm.com, in the
'investors' section under the 'annual general meeting' tab.

About Wheaton Precious
Metals Corp.

Wheaton Precious Metals
is the world's premier precious metals streaming company with the highest-quality portfolio of long-life, low-cost assets. Its business
model offers investors leverage to commodity prices and exploration upside but with a much lower risk profile than a traditional mining
company. Wheaton delivers amongst the highest cash operating margins in the mining industry, allowing it to pay a competitive dividend
and continue to grow through accretive acquisitions. As a result, Wheaton has consistently outperformed gold and silver, as well as other
mining investments. Wheaton is committed to strong ESG practices and giving back to the communities where Wheaton and its mining partners
operate. Wheaton creates sustainable value through streaming.

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-provides-details-of-annual-and-special-meeting-of-shareholders-and-files-form-40-f-302103129.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious
Metals Corp.

 

View original content:
http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/March2024/28/c3555.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: For further
information: Investor Contact: Emma Murray, Vice President, Investor Relations, Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com; Media
Contact: Simona Antolak, Vice President, Communications & Corporate Affairs, Tel: 604-639-9870, Email: simona.antolak@wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious
Metals Corp.

CNW 17:07e 28-MAR-24