EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED MARCH 9, 2023

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

Wheaton Precious
Metals Declares Quarterly Dividend

TSX | NYSE | LSE: WPM
DIVIDEND DECLARATION

VANCOUVER, BC, March
9, 2023 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that its
Board of Directors has declared its first quarterly cash dividend payment for 2023 of US$0.15 per common share.

First Quarterly Dividend

The first quarterly
cash dividend for 2023 of US$0.15 will be paid to holders of record of Wheaton common shares as of the close of business on March 24,
2023, and will be distributed on or about April 6, 2023. The ex-dividend trading date is March 23, 2023.

Under the Company's
dividend policy, for the 2023 calendar year, the quarterly dividend per common share is targeted to equal the greater of 30% of the average
cash generated by operating activities in the previous four quarters divided by the Company's then outstanding common shares, all rounded
to the nearest cent and the dividend declared in the prior quarter. To minimize volatility in quarterly dividends, the Company has set
a minimum quarterly dividend for the duration of 2023 equal to the dividend per common share declared in the prior quarter.

The declaration, timing,
amount and payment of future dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an 'eligible dividend'
for Canadian income tax purposes.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan

The Company has previously
implemented a Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRIP"). Participation in the DRIP is optional. For the purposes of this quarterly
dividend, the Company has elected to issue common shares under the DRIP through treasury at the Average Market Price, as defined in the
DRIP. However, the Company may, from time to time, in its discretion, change or eliminate the discount applicable to Treasury Acquisitions,
as defined in the DRIP, or direct that such common shares be purchased in Market Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, at the prevailing
market price, any of which would be publicly announced.

The DRIP and enrollment
forms, including direct deposit, are available for download on the Company's website at www.wheatonpm.com, in the 'investors' section
under the 'dividends' tab.

Registered shareholders
may also enroll in the DRIP online through the plan agent's self-service web portal at: https://tsxtrust.com/DRIP

Beneficial shareholders
should contact their financial intermediary to arrange enrollment. All shareholders considering enrollment in the DRIP should carefully
review the terms of the DRIP and consult with their advisors as to the implications of enrollment in the DRIP.

This press release
is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer of securities. A registration statement relating to the DRIP has been filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and may be obtained under the Company's profile on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's
website at http://www.sec.gov. A written copy of the prospectus included in the registration statement may be obtained by contacting
the Corporate Secretary of the Company at 1021 West Hastings Street, Suite 3500, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6E 0C3.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING
FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

This press release
contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
and "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning the business,
operations and financial performance of Wheaton. Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical
fact, include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to future dividends. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Wheaton
to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements including risks discussed in the section
entitled "Description of the Business – Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com
and Wheaton's Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2021 and Form 6-K filed March 31, 2022 both on file with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission on EDGAR and the risks identified under "Risks and Uncertainties" in Wheaton's Management's Discussion
and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2022, available on SEDAR and in Wheaton's Form 40-F and Wheaton's Form 6-K filed March 9,
2023. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management currently believes to be reasonable, including (without limitation)
that there will be no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining operations from which Wheaton purchases
precious metals will continue to operate, that each party will satisfy their obligations in accordance with the precious metals purchase
agreements, that neither Wheaton nor the Mining Operations will suffer significant impacts as a result of an epidemic (including the
COVID-19 virus pandemic) and that Wheaton's application of the CRA Settlement for years subsequent to 2010 is accurate (including the
Company's assessment that there will be no material change in the Company's facts or change in law or jurisprudence for years subsequent
to 2010) and possible domestic audits for taxation years subsequent to 2016 and international audits. 

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-declares-quarterly-dividend-301768418.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious
Metals Corp.

 

View original content:
http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/March2023/09/c8213.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: Patrick Drouin,
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Wheaton Precious Metals Corp., Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com, Website: www.wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious
Metals Corp.

CNW 17:00e 09-MAR-23