EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

Exhibit 99.1
FORM 52-109F1 CERTIFICATION OF ANNUAL FILINGS
FULL CERTIFICATE 
I, Gary Brown, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Silver Wheaton Corp., certify the following: 

 
 1. 
 
 Review: I have reviewed the AIF, if any,
 annual financial statements and annual MD&A, including, for greater
 certainty, all documents and information that are incorporated by
 reference in the AIF (together, the “annual filings”) of Silver Wheaton
 Corp. (the “issuer”) for the financial year ended December 31,
 2011.
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 No misrepresentations: Based on my
 knowledge, having exercised reasonable diligence, the annual filings do
 not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a
 material fact required to be stated or that is necessary to make a
 statement not misleading in light of the circumstances under which it was
 made, for the period covered by the annual filings.
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 Fair presentation: Based on my knowledge,
 having exercised reasonable diligence, the annual financial statements
 together with the other financial information included in the annual
 filings fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
 financial performance and cash flows of the issuer, as of the date of and
 for the periods presented in the annual filings.
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 Responsibility: The issuer’s other
 certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
 disclosure controls and procedures (DC&P) and internal control over
 financial reporting (ICFR), as those terms are defined in National
 Instrument 52-109 Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and
 Interim Filings, for the issuer.
 
 
 
 
 5. 
 
 Design: Subject to the limitations, if any,
 described in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3, the issuer’s other certifying officer
 and I have, as at the financial year end

 
 
 (a) 
 
 designed DC&P, or caused it to be designed under our
 supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
that

 
 
 (i) 
 
 material information relating to the issuer is made known
 to us by others, particularly during the period in which the annual
 filings are being prepared; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 information required to be disclosed by the issuer in its
 annual filings, interim filings or other reports filed or submitted by it
 under securities legislation is recorded, processed, summarized and
 reported within the time periods specified in securities legislation;
 and

 
 
 (b) 
 
 designed ICFR, or caused it to be designed under our
 supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
 financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
 external purposes in accordance with the issuer’s
GAAP.

- 2 - 

 
 5.1 
 
 Control framework: The control framework
 the issuer’s other certifying officer and I used to design the issuer’s
 ICFR is Internal Control – Integrated Framework published by
 the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
 Commission.
 
 
 
 
 5.2 
 
 N/A
 
 
 
 
 5.3 
 
 N/A
 
 
 
 
 6. 
 
 Evaluation: The issuer’s other certifying
 officer and I have

 
 
 (a) 
 
 evaluated, or caused to be evaluated under our
 supervision, the effectiveness of the issuer’s DC&P at the financial
 year end and the issuer has disclosed in its annual MD&A our
 conclusions about the effectiveness of DC&P at the financial year end
 based on that evaluation; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 evaluated, or caused to be evaluated under our
 supervision, the effectiveness of the issuer’s ICFR at the financial year
 end and the issuer has disclosed in its annual
MD&A

 
 
 (i) 
 
 our conclusions about the effectiveness of ICFR at the
 financial year end based on that evaluation; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 N/A

 
 7. 
 
 Reporting changes in ICFR: The issuer has
 disclosed in its annual MD&A any change in the issuer’s ICFR that
 occurred during the period beginning on October 1, 2011 and ended on
 December 31, 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
 materially affect, the issuer’s ICFR.
 
 
 
 
 8. 
 
 Reporting to the issuer’s auditors and board of
 directors or audit committee: The issuer’s other certifying
 officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of ICFR,
 to the issuer’s auditors, and the board of directors or the audit
 committee of the board of directors any fraud that involves management or
 other employees who have a significant role in the issuer’s
 ICFR.
Date: March 27, 2012 
/s/ Gary
Brown 
Name: Gary Brown Title: Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer