EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE FOR SILVER WHEATON

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

TSX: SLW

March 21, 2017

NYSE: SLW

SILVER WHEATON DECLARES

FIRST QUARTERLY DIVIDEND PAYMENT FOR 2017

Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. ("Silver Wheaton" or the "Company") (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has declared its first quarterly cash dividend payment for 2017 of US$0.07 per common share, an increase of US$0.01 relative to the previous quarterly dividend.

First Quarterly Dividend

The first quarterly cash dividend of US$0.07 will be paid to holders of record of Silver Wheaton common shares as of the close of business on April 5, 2017, and will be distributed on or about April 21, 2017.

Under the Company's dividend policy, the quarterly dividend per common share will be equal to 20% of the average cash generated by operating activities in the previous four quarters divided by the Company's then outstanding common shares, all rounded to the nearest cent.

The declaration, timing, amount and payment of future dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an 'eligible dividend' for Canadian income tax purposes.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan

The Company has previously implemented a Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRIP"). Participation in the DRIP is optional. For the purposes of this first quarterly dividend, the Company has elected to issue common shares under the DRIP through treasury at a 3% discount to the Average Market Price, as defined in the DRIP. However, the Company may, from time to time, in its discretion, change or eliminate the discount applicable to Treasury Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, or direct that such common shares be purchased in Market Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, at the prevailing market price, any of which would be publicly announced.

The DRIP and enrollment forms are available for download on the Company's website at www.silverwheaton.com, accessible by quick links directly from the home page, and can also be found in the 'investors' section, under the 'dividends' tab.

Registered shareholders may also enroll in the DRIP online through the plan agent's self-service web portal at:

https://www.canstockta.com/en/InvestorServices/Investor_Information/Issuer_List/IssuerDetail.jsp?companyCode=1501.

Beneficial shareholders should contact their financial intermediary to arrange enrollment. All shareholders considering enrollment in the DRIP should carefully review the terms of the DRIP and consult with their advisors as to the implications of enrollment in the DRIP.

This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer of securities. A registration statement relating to the DRIP has been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and may be obtained under the Company's profile on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov. A written copy of the prospectus included in the registration statement may be obtained by contacting the Corporate Secretary of the Company at 1021 West Hastings Street, Suite 3500, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6E 0C3.

For further information, please contact:

Patrick Drouin

Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

Silver Wheaton Corp.

Tel: 1-844-288-9878

Email: info@silverwheaton.com

Website: www.silverwheaton.com

-2-