EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX:SLW 
 
 May 10, 2013 
 NYSE:SLW 
SILVER WHEATON AMENDS DIVIDEND POLICY AND DECLARES
SECOND QUARTERLY DIVIDEND PAYMENT FOR 2013
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (“Silver
Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) is pleased to announce that its
Board of Directors has amended the Company’s dividend policy in order to
increase the stability of the dividend. Commencing immediately, the quarterly
dividend per common share will be equal to 20% of the average cash generated by
operating activities in the previous four quarters divided by the Company’s
outstanding common shares at the time the dividend is approved, all rounded to
the nearest cent.
As a transitionary measure, however, the second quarterly
dividend being announced today has been calculated using the average cash
generated by operating activities for the trailing two quarters (fourth quarter
of 2012 and first quarter of 2013). The third quarterly dividend in 2013 will be
calculated using the average cash generated by operating activities for the
trailing three quarters (fourth quarter 2012, first quarter 2013 and second
quarter 2013), after which future quarterly dividends will be calculated using
the average cash generated by operating activities for the trailing four
quarters.
Based on the amended policy, the Board of Directors has
declared its second quarterly cash dividend for 2013 of US$0.12 per common
share. The quarterly dividend will be paid to holders of its common shares as of
the close of business on May 23, 2013, and will be distributed on or about May
31, 2013. Under the previous dividend policy, the payout would have been equal
to 20% of the cash generated by operating activities in the first quarter of
2013, or US$0.09 per common share.
The declaration, timing, amount and payment of future dividends
remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as
an ‘eligible dividend’ for Canadian income tax purposes. 
About Silver Wheaton
Silver Wheaton is the largest precious metals streaming company
in the world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2013 attributable
production is approximately 33.5 million silver equivalent ounces1,
including 145 thousand ounces of gold. By 2017, annual attributable production
is anticipated to increase significantly to approximately 53 million silver
equivalent ounces1, including 180 thousand ounces of gold. This
growth is driven by the Company’s portfolio of low-cost and long-life assets,
including precious metal streams on Barrick’s Pascua-Lama project, Hudbay’s
Constancia project, and Vale’s Salobo and Sudbury mines.
________________________________
 1 Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a
gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1

- 2 -
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD
LOOKING-STATEMENTSThe information contained herein contains
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the United States Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information”
within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation.
Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of
historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the
future price of silver and gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and
resources, the realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount
of estimated future production, costs of production, reserve determination,
reserve conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally,
these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as “plans”, “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”,
“budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates” or
“does not anticipate”, or “believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”,
“might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements
are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may
cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of
Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by
such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in
the price of silver and gold; the absence of control over mining operations from
which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining
operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary
commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration
activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the
mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans
continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of
tax laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section
entitled “Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in Silver Wheaton's Annual
Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver
Wheaton's Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management
believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation
of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold, no
material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining
operations will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance
with their public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, and
such other assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton
has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may
be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove
to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference
herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws.
For further information, please contact:
Patrick DrouinVice President, Investor Relations Silver
Wheaton Corp.Tel: 1-800-380-8687Email: info@silverwheaton.com
Website: www.silverwheaton.com