EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED MAY 6, 2021

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

Wheaton Precious Metals Increases Quarterly Dividend
for a Third Quarter in a Row

DIVIDEND DECLARATION 

TSX | NYSE | LSE: WPM

VANCOUVER, BC, May 6, 2021 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious
Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has declared its
second quarterly cash dividend payment for 2021 of US$0.14 per common share, an increase of 40% relative to the comparable period in 2020
and representing the third quarterly dividend increase in a row.

Second Quarterly Dividend
The second quarterly cash dividend for 2021 of US$0.14 will be paid to holders of record of Wheaton Precious Metals common
shares as of the close of business on May 21, 2021 and will be distributed on or about June 3, 2021.

Under the Company's dividend policy, the quarterly
dividend per common share is targeted to equal approximately 30% of the average cash generated by operating activities in the previous
four quarters divided by the Company's then outstanding common shares, all rounded to the nearest cent. To minimize volatility in quarterly
dividends, the Company has set a minimum quarterly dividend of $0.13 per common share for the duration of 2021.

The declaration, timing, amount and payment of future
dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an 'eligible dividend' for Canadian income tax
purposes.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company has previously implemented a Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRIP"). Participation in the DRIP is optional.
For the purposes of this first quarterly dividend, the Company has elected to issue common shares under the DRIP through treasury
at a 1% discount to the Average Market Price, as defined in the DRIP. However, the Company may, from time to time, in its discretion,
change or eliminate the discount applicable to Treasury Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, or direct that such common shares be
purchased in Market Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, at the prevailing market price, any of which would be publicly
announced.

The DRIP and enrollment forms, including direct deposit,
are available for download on the Company's website at www.wheatonpm.com, in the 'investors' section under the 'dividends' tab.

Registered shareholders may also enroll in the DRIP
online through the plan agent's self-service web portal at: https://www.canstockta.com/en/InvestorServices/Investor_Information/Issuer_List/IssuerDetail.jsp?companyCode=1501.

Beneficial shareholders should contact their financial
intermediary to arrange enrollment. All shareholders considering enrollment in the DRIP should carefully review the terms of the DRIP
and consult with their advisors as to the implications of enrollment in the DRIP.

This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation
of an offer of securities. A registration statement relating to the DRIP has been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and may be obtained under the Company's profile on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov. A written
copy of the prospectus included in the registration statement may be obtained by contacting the Corporate Secretary of the Company at
1021 West Hastings Street, Suite 3500, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6E 0C3.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS 

This press release contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information"
within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning the business, operations and financial performance of Wheaton.
Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements
with respect to future dividends. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that
may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed
or implied by such forward-looking statements including risks discussed in the section entitled "Description of the Business –
Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com, Wheaton's Form 40-F for the year ended
December 31, 2020 and Form 6-K filed March 31, 2021 both on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR and Wheaton's
Management's Discussion and Analysis for the three months ended March 31, 2021, available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and Form 6-K filed
May 6, 2021, available on EDGAR. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management currently believes to be reasonable, including
(without limitation) that there will be no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that neither Wheaton nor the Mining
Operations will suffer significant impacts as a result of an epidemic (including the COVID-19 virus pandemic), that the mining operations
from which Wheaton purchases precious metals will continue to operate, that each party will satisfy their obligations in accordance with
the precious metals purchase agreements and that Wheaton's application of the CRA Settlement for years subsequent to 2010 is accurate
(including the Company's assessment that there will be no material change in the Company's facts or change in law or jurisprudence for
years subsequent to 2010).

View
original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-increases-quarterly-dividend-for-a-third-quarter-in-a-row-301286261.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

 

View
original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/May2021/06/c8068.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: Patrick Drouin, Senior Vice President, Investor
Relations, Wheaton Precious Metals Corp., Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com, Website: www.wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 18:48e 06-MAY-21