EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX: SLW 
 
 February 5, 2013 
 NYSE: SLW 
SILVER WHEATON ACQUIRES GOLD STREAMS FROM
VALE’S SALOBO AND SUDBURY MINES
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp.
("Silver Wheaton" or the "Company") (TSX, NYSE:SLW) is pleased to announce that
it has entered into a binding term sheet to acquire from a subsidiary of Vale
S.A. ("Vale") (NYSE:VALE) an amount of gold equal to 25% of the life of mine
gold production from its Salobo Mine, located in Brazil, as well as 70% of the
gold production, for a 20-year term, from certain of its Sudbury Mines located
in Canada.
The Company will pay Vale total cash consideration of US$1.90
billion, plus 10 million Silver Wheaton warrants with a strike price of US$65
and a term of 10 years1. US$1.33 billion will be paid for 25% of the
gold production from Salobo, while US$570 million will be paid for 70% of the
Sudbury gold production. In addition, Silver Wheaton will make ongoing payments
of the lesser of US$400 (subject to a 1% annual inflation adjustment from 2016
for Salobo) and the prevailing market price, for each ounce of gold delivered
under the agreement.
TRANSACTION HIGHLIGHTS 

 Provides immediate cash flow and enhances Silver Wheaton’s growth
 profile 

 
 Silver Wheaton will receive 25% of the gold production from Vale’s newly
 constructed and currently expanding Salobo mine, and 70% of the gold
 production from certain of its Sudbury mines;
 
 This immediately increases Silver Wheaton's production and cash flow
 profile by adding expected average gold production of 110 thousand ounces per
 year over the next 20 years (5.9 million silver equivalent
 ounces2), which includes approximately 60 thousand ounces per year
 from Salobo and approximately 50 thousand ounces per year from Sudbury.
 
 Excellent expansion and exploration potential exist for both Salobo, which
 currently has an extensive reserve base and good depth and strike potential,
 and Sudbury, which currently has the Totten mine in start-up and the Victor
 development project. 
________________

 
 1 
 The issue of the warrants is subject to receipt of all
 requisite regulatory approvals including the Toronto Stock Exchange and
 the New York Stock Exchange. 
 
 2 
 Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a gold/silver
 ratio of 53.3:1 

- 2 - 

 Significantly increases Silver Wheaton’s exposure to gold 

 
 The addition of the Vale streams will increase Silver Wheaton’s percentage
 of revenue generated from gold production over the next five years from an
 average of 12% to a peak of around 25%. 

 Adds another world-class partner and further endorses the
 competitiveness of Silver Wheaton’s streaming model 

 
 Vale is the world’s largest producer of iron ore and one of the largest
 mining companies in the world, having a market capitalization of over $100
 billion.
 
 The use of precious metal streaming by Vale further validates the benefits
 of streaming in unlocking the value of by-product precious metals production.
 

 Increases Silver Wheaton’s organic growth profile 

 
 With the addition of these streams, Silver Wheaton is also pleased to
 announce its updated production guidance. In 2013, Silver Wheaton forecasts
 33.5 million ounces of silver equivalent production2 (including 145
 thousand ounces of gold). In 2017, the Company forecasts 53 million ounces of
 silver equivalent production2 (including 180 thousand ounces of
 gold), which represents an increase of over 80% from 2012. 
“Partnering with Vale on two new gold streams represents a
significant step forward for Silver Wheaton and for the streaming model as a
whole. Not only does Silver Wheaton gain accretive gold ounces to further grow
and diversify our company, but the precious metals streaming model has now been
further endorsed by another one of the world’s preeminent mining companies,”
said Randy Smallwood, Silver Wheaton’s President and Chief Executive Officer.
“Silver Wheaton is a proud Canadian company, and we are also excited to be
adding another asset based here in Canada, our second one in less than a year.”

“While we have traditionally focused on silver, we have never
been averse to strategically adding ‘the right’ gold streams to our portfolio.
The world-class nature of the Sudbury operations and the Salobo mine, with its
exciting expansion and exploration potential, along with the quality of Vale as
an operating partner, convinced us that these assets would be ideal additions to
Silver Wheaton’s portfolio. Consistent with the mines underlying our existing
streaming portfolio, the precious metal coming from both of these assets is
produced as a byproduct and represents only a small fraction of the overall
economics of the mining operations. While we will continue to believe there are
a significant number of streaming opportunities in the silver space, we are also
open to layering more high-quality gold streams into our portfolio.” 
“Vale has a history of mining success spanning decades, and we
are confident that Salobo and Sudbury will deliver substantial long-term value
to both companies’ shareholders. These gold streams will significantly increase
Silver Wheaton’s overall growth profile, which, given our unique dividend
policy, should also translate directly into dividend growth.”

- 3 - 
TRANSACTION TERMS 
Silver Wheaton has agreed to acquire from a subsidiary of Vale
70% of the gold production from certain of Vale’s Sudbury mines for a term of 20
years, and, through Silver Wheaton’s wholly owned subsidiary Silver Wheaton
(Caymans) Ltd., 25% of the life of mine gold production from Vale’s Salobo mine.
Production will accrue retroactively to Silver Wheaton as of January 1,
2013.
The term sheet remains subject to negotiation and execution of
definitive agreements consistent with the terms of the term sheet, and to
approval by the Vale S.A. board of directors. Vale S.A. has obtained approval of
its Executive Committee of the Board and all other necessary internal committee
approvals. 
Upon closing, Silver Wheaton will pay Vale total cash
consideration of US$1.90 billion, plus warrants to purchase 10 million shares of
Silver Wheaton common stock at a strike price of US$65, and a 10 year term. In
addition, the Company will make ongoing payments of the lesser of US$400 (plus
an annual inflation adjustment starting in 2016 for the Salobo stream) and the
prevailing market price, for each ounce of gold delivered under the agreement.

Vale is in the process of expanding the mill throughput at the
Salobo mine to 24 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa) from its current 12 Mtpa.
If the expansion to 24Mtpa is not completed by the end 2016, Silver Wheaton
would be entitled to a gross up (a temporary increased percentage of gold
production) based on the pro-rata achievement of the target production. If
throughput capacity is expanded above 28Mtpa within a predetermined period,
Silver Wheaton will be required to make an additional payment to Vale based on a
set fee schedule ranging from US$67 million up to US$400 million, dependent on
timing and scale. 
FINANCING THE ACQUISITION 
Silver Wheaton has entered into an agreement with Scotiabank
and BMO Capital Markets as Joint Lead Arrangers and Co-Bookrunners securing a
commitment to underwrite two new credit facilities: (1) a US$1 billion
revolving credit facility having a 5 year term; and (2) a US$1.5 billion bridge
financing facility having a 1 year term. These facilities will replace the
existing US$400 million revolving credit facility. Combined with cash on hand,
the additional credit capacity offered by these new credit facilities provides
Silver Wheaton with sufficient access to capital to fund the upfront payment
while continuing its pursuit of additional accretive growth opportunities.
ABOUT THE SALOBO MINE 
Vale’s Salobo mine, located in the Pará state of Brazil, is the
largest copper deposit ever found in Brazil. This newly constructed, low-cost
copper-gold mine began operating in May 2012 with a design throughput capacity
of 12Mtpa. Vale has subsequently begun a second phase of construction to expand
the mine to 24Mtpa of mill capacity by the end of 2015. During the ramp up to
24Mtpa, the mine is expected to average 45 thousand ounces attributable gold
production. Salobo has reserves of over one billion tonnes with gold and copper grades of 0.43
g/t1 and 0.69 2 percent respectively, and, along with
additional resources also has substantial exploration and expansion potential.
The mine is well positioned relative to infrastructure and is connected to the
national power grid with ample capacity for current production and future
expansion.

- 4 - 
ABOUT THE SUDBURY MINES 
Vale’s Sudbury mines, located in Ontario, Canada, have an
operating history going back to 1885. Sudbury is one of the largest nickel
producing areas globally, and Vale's operations in Sudbury are among the largest
in the world. The Sudbury gold stream covers six producing mines (the Coleman,
Copper Cliff, Creighton, Garson, Stobie, and Totten mines) and one development
stage project (the Victor project). From 2013 to 2015, the Sudbury mines are
expected to average attributable production of approximately 30 thousand ounces
as the Totten mine gradually reaches full production. Gold production is
expected to peak once the high grade Victor deposit begins production. All ore
bodies contain a mix of nickel, copper, platinum group metals, cobalt, gold and
silver. In Sudbury, Vale also has a central concentrator, smelter and refinery,
making this one of the largest integrated mining operations in the world. The
combined mine life is estimated to well beyond the end of the 20 year term,
based on current mineral reserves and mineral resources. 
SILVER WHEATON ANNOUNCES NEW PRODUCTION GUIDANCE 
With the addition of two new gold metal streams, Silver Wheaton
is also pleased to present its updated one and five-year production guidance. In
2013 attributable silver equivalent production is forecast to be 33.5 million
silver equivalent ounces, including 145 thousand ounces of gold3. In
2017, annual attributable production is anticipated to increase over 80%
compared to 2012 levels, growing to approximately 53 million silver equivalent
ounces, including 180 thousand ounces of gold1.
The addition of Sudbury and Salobo to our portfolio more than
offsets the anticipated reduction in attributable production from some of the
other assets in Silver Wheaton’s current streaming portfolio in 2017. Hudbay
Minerals’ Constancia mine is expected to meet the completion test well before
2016, resulting in gold production from the 777 mine attributable to Silver
Wheaton dropping from 100% to 50%. In addition, the 10-year term contract on
Capstone Mining’s Cozamin mine, acquired with Silver Wheaton’s 2009 acquisition
of Silverstone, expires in April 2017.
Mr. Neil Burns, Silver Wheaton’s Vice President, Technical
Services, is a “qualified person” as such term is defined under National
Instrument 43-101, and has reviewed and approved the technical disclosure in
this news release. 
________________

 
 1 
 Silver Wheaton will file a
 technical report for the Salobo mine within 45 days of this press release.
 For further details of the Salobo mineral reserves, see the tables
 appended to this news release. 
 
 2 
 Source is Vale’s 2011 20-F filing
 with the SEC available on EDGAR (www.edgarfiling.sec.gov). 
 
 3 
 Silver equivalent production
 forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1 

- 5 - 
CONFERENCE CALL 
A conference call, along with an interactive presentation, will
be held on Wednesday February 6, starting at 11:00am (Eastern Time) to discuss
this transaction.
To participate in the live call please use one of the following
methods: 

 
 Dial toll free from Canada or the US:
 
 1-888-390-0546 
 
 Dial from outside Canada or the US:

 1-416-764-8688 
 
 Pass code: 
 60136108 
 
 Live audio webcast: 
 www.silverwheaton.com 
Participants should dial in five to ten minutes before the
call.
A copy of the presentation can be accessed via the live webcast
or can be found approximately one hour before the call on www.silverwheaton.com.

The conference call will be recorded and you can listen to an
archive of the call by one of the following methods: 

 
 Dial toll free from Canada or the US:
 
 1-888-390-0541 
 
 Dial from outside Canada or the US:

 1-416-764-8677 
 
 Pass code: 
 136108 
 
 Archived audio webcast: 
 www.silverwheaton.com
 
ABOUT SILVER WHEATON 
Silver Wheaton is the largest precious metals streaming company
in the world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2013 attributable
production is approximately 33.5 million silver equivalent ounces, including 145
thousand ounces of gold1. By 2017, annual attributable production is
anticipated to increase significantly to approximately 53 million silver
equivalent ounces, including 180 thousand ounces of gold1. This
growth is driven by the Company’s portfolio of low-cost and long-life assets,
including silver and precious metal streams on Barrick’s Pascua-Lama project,
Hudbay’s Constancia project, and Vale’s Sudbury and Salobo mines. 
________________

 
 1 
 
 Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a
 gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1

- 6 - 
Silver Wheaton’s Reserves and Resources for Sudbury and Salobo
Mines are as follows: 
ATTRIBUTABLE RESERVES & RESOURCES ATTRIBUTAL TO SILVER
WHEATON (1,2,3,4,5,6,8,11) 

 
 Mine 
 Category 
 Tonnage Mt 
 Grade Au g/t 
 Contained Au Moz
 
 Process
 Recovery(7) % 
 
 Salobo (25%)(9) 
 Proven Reserves 
 142.1 
 0.45 
 2.06 
 
 
 Sudbury (70%)(10) 
 34.8 
 0.29 
 0.33 
 
 
 Salobo (25%)(9) 
 Probable Reserves 
 135.9 
 0.40 
 1.75 
 
 
 Sudbury (70%)(10) 
 26.5 
 0.49 
 0.42 
 
 
 Salobo (25%)(9) 
 Proven &
 Probable Reserves 
 278.0 
 0.43 
 3.80 
 66% 
 
 Sudbury (70%) (10)
 
 61.3 
 0.38 
 0.75 
 81% 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 4.55 
 
 
 Sudbury (70%)(10) 
 Indicated Resources 
 23.3 
 0.33 
 0.25 
 
 
 Salobo (25%)(9) 
 Inferred Resources 
 13.7 
 0.29 
 0.13 
 
 
 Sudbury (70%)(10) 
 18.9 
 0.67 
 0.40 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 0.53 
 
Notes: 

 
 1. 
 
 All Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources have been
 calculated in accordance with the CIM Standards and NI 43-101, or the
 AusIMM JORC equivalent.
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources are reported above
 in millions of metric tonnes (“Mt”), grams per metric tonne (“g/t”) and
 millions of ounces (“Moz”).
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 Individual qualified persons (“QPs”), as defined by the
 NI 43-101, for the technical information contained in this document
 (including the Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates) for the
 following operations are as follows:

 
 
 a. 
 
 Salobo – A technical report is being prepared, and will
 be filed by the Company on Sedar (www.Sedar.com) within 45 days of this news
 release. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 b. 
 
 Sudbury – Neil Burns, M.Sc., P.Geo. (Vice President,
 Technical Services); Samuel Mah, M.A.Sc., P.Eng. (Senior Director, Project
 Evaluations), both employees of the Company (the “Company’s QPs”).
 

 
 4. 
 
 The Mineral Resources reported in the above tables are
 exclusive of Mineral Reserves.
 
 
 
 
 5. 
 
 Mineral Resources which are not Mineral Reserves do not
 have demonstrated economic viability.
 
 
 
 
 6. 
 
 Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources are reported as of
 December 31, 2011 based on information available to the Company as of the
 date of this document, and therefore will not reflect updates, if any,
 after such date.
 
 
 
 
 7. 
 
 Process recoveries are the average percentage of gold in
 a saleable product (doré or concentrate) recovered from mined ore at the
 applicable site process plants as reported by the operators.
 
 
 
 
 8. 
 
 Mineral Reserves and Resources are estimated using
 appropriate process recovery rates and commodity prices including $975 per
 ounce gold.
 
 
 
 
 9. 
 
 A technical report for Salobo will be filed within 45
 days of this news release. Inferred resources have been estimated by the
 Company and are contained within the current Reserve pit shell.
 
 
 
 
 10. 
 
 The Company’s attributable Resources and Reserves for
 Sudbury have been constrained to the production expected for the 20 year
 term.
 
 
 
 
 11. 
 
 Gold is produced as a by-product metal; therefore, the
 economic cut-off applied to the reporting of gold Resources and Reserves
 will be influenced by changes in the commodity prices of other metals at
 the time.

- 7 - 
Full Reserve and Resource tables are available on the Company’s
website, www.silverwheaton.com. Updates
Reserves and Resources incorporating year-end 2012 estimates will be included in
the Company’s 2012 AIF.
Mr. Neil Burns, Vice President of Technical Services, is a
“qualified person” as such term is defined under National Instrument 43-101, and
has reviewed and approved the information on mineral reserves and mineral
resources disclosed in this news release. 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information" within the
meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking
statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact,
include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of
silver and gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the
realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated
future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve
conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally, these
forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as "plans", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected",
"budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates" or
"does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would",
"might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved". Forward-looking statements
are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may
cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of
Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by
such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in
the price of silver and gold; the absence of control over mining operations from
which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining
operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary
commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration
activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the
mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans
continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of
tax laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section
entitled "Description of the Business - Risk Factors" in Silver Wheaton's Annual
Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.
Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management believes to be
reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation of the mining
operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold, no material
adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining operations
will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance with their
public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, and such other
assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted
to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be
other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove
to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference
herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 
CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE REGARDING RESERVES AND RESOURCES

For further information on Mineral Reserves and Mineral
Resources and on Silver Wheaton more generally, readers should refer to Silver
Wheaton’s Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2011, and
other continuous disclosure documents filed by Silver Wheaton since January 1,
2012, available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
Silver Wheaton’s Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources are subject to the
qualifications and notes set forth therein. Mineral Resources which are not
Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. 
Cautionary Note to United States Investors Concerning
Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources: The
information contained herein uses the terms “Measured”, “Indicated” and
“Inferred” Mineral Resources. United States investors are advised that while
such terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them and expressly
prohibits U.S. registered companies from including such terms in their filings
with the SEC. “Inferred Mineral Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as
to their existence, and as to their economic and legal feasibility. It
cannot be assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever
be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred
Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or other economic
studies. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any
part of Measured or Indicated Mineral Resources will ever be converted into
Mineral Reserves or that any exploration potential will ever be converted to any
category of Mineral Reserves or Mineral Resources. United States investors are
also cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral
Resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable. United States investors
are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Silver Wheaton’s Form 40-F, a
copy of which may be obtained from Silver Wheaton or from http://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml.

- 8 - 
For further information, please contact: 
Patrick DrouinVice President, Investor Relations Silver
Wheaton Corp. Tel: 1-800-380-8687 Email: info@silverwheaton.com
Website: www.silverwheaton.com