EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

FORM 51-102F3 
MATERIAL CHANGE REPORT UNDER NATIONAL INSTRUMENT
51-102 

 
 1. 
 
 Name and Address of Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Silver Wheaton Corp. ("Silver Wheaton" or the "Company")
 666 Burrard Street, Suite 3150 Vancouver, British Columbia V6C
 2X8
 
 
 
 
 2. 
 
 Date of Material Change
 
 
 
 
 
 
 February 5, 2013
 
 
 
 
 3. 
 
 News Release
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A news release with respect to the material change
 referred to in this report was disseminated through Canada Newswire on
 February 5, 2013 and filed on the system for electronic document analysis
 and retrieval (SEDAR).
 
 
 
 
 4. 
 
 Summary of Material Change
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Silver Wheaton announced that it has entered into a
 binding term sheet to acquire from a subsidiary of Vale S.A. ("Vale") an
 amount of gold equal to 25% of the life of mine gold production from its
 Salobo Mine, located in Brazil, as well as 70% of the gold production, for
 a 20-year term, from certain of its Sudbury Mines located in
 Canada.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Silver Wheaton will pay Vale total cash consideration of
 US$1.90 billion, plus 10 million Silver Wheaton warrants with a strike
 price of US$65 and a term of 10 years1. US$1.33 billion will be
 paid for 25% of the gold production from Salobo, while US$570 million will
 be paid for 70% of the Sudbury gold production. In addition, Silver
 Wheaton will make ongoing payments of the lesser of US$400 (subject to a
 1% annual inflation adjustment from 2016 for Salobo) and the prevailing
 market price, for each ounce of gold delivered under the
 agreement.
 
 
 
 
 5. 
 
 Full Description of Material
 Change
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TRANSACTION TERMS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Silver Wheaton has agreed to acquire from a subsidiary of
 Vale 70% of the gold production from certain of Vale’s Sudbury mines for a
 term of 20 years, and, through Silver Wheaton’s wholly owned subsidiary
 Silver Wheaton (Caymans) Ltd., 25% of the life of mine gold production
 from Vale’s Salobo mine. Production will accrue retroactively to Silver
 Wheaton as of January 1, 2013.
___________________________1 The issue of the
warrants is subject to receipt of all requisite regulatory approvals including
the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. 

- 2 - 
The term sheet remains subject to
negotiation and execution of definitive agreements consistent with the terms of
the term sheet, and to approval by the Vale board of directors. Vale has
obtained approval of its Executive Committee of the Board and all other
necessary internal committee approvals. 
Upon closing, Silver Wheaton will pay
Vale total cash consideration of US$1.90 billion, plus warrants to purchase 10
million shares of Silver Wheaton common stock at a strike price of US$65, and a
10 year term. In addition, the Company will make ongoing payments of the lesser
of US$400 (plus an annual inflation adjustment starting in 2016 for the Salobo
stream) and the prevailing market price, for each ounce of gold delivered under
the agreement. 
Vale is in the process of expanding the
mill throughput at the Salobo mine to 24 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa) from
its current 12 Mtpa. If the expansion to 24Mtpa is not completed by the end of
2016, Silver Wheaton would be entitled to a gross up (a temporary increased
percentage of gold production) based on the pro-rata achievement of the target
production. If throughput capacity is expanded above 28Mtpa within a
predetermined period, Silver Wheaton will be required to make an additional
payment to Vale based on a set fee schedule ranging from US$67 million up to
US$400 million, dependent on timing and scale. 
FINANCING THE ACQUISITION

Silver Wheaton has entered into an
agreement with Scotiabank and BMO Capital Markets as Joint Lead Arrangers and
Co-Bookrunners securing a commitment to underwrite two new credit facilities:
(1) a US$1 billion revolving credit facility having a 5 year term; and (2) a
US$1.5 billion bridge financing facility having a 1 year term. These facilities
will replace the existing US$400 million revolving credit facility. Combined
with cash on hand, the additional credit capacity offered by these new credit
facilities provides Silver Wheaton with sufficient access to capital to fund the
upfront payment while continuing its pursuit of additional accretive growth
opportunities. 
UPDATED PRODUCTION GUIDANCE

With the addition of two new gold metal
streams, Silver Wheaton is also pleased to present its updated one and five-year
production guidance. In 2013 attributable silver equivalent production is
forecast to be 33.5 million silver equivalent ounces, including 145 thousand
ounces of gold2. In 2017, annual attributable production is
anticipated to increase over 80% compared to 2012 levels, growing to
approximately 53 million silver equivalent ounces, including 180 thousand ounces
of gold3. 
The addition of Sudbury and Salobo to
the Silver Wheaton portfolio more than offsets the anticipated reduction in
attributable production from some of the other assets in Silver Wheaton’s
current streaming portfolio in 2017. Hudbay Minerals’ Constancia mine is
expected to meet the completion test well before 2016, resulting in gold
production from the 777 mine attributable to Silver Wheaton dropping from 100%
to 50%. In addition, the 10-year term contract on Capstone Mining’s
Cozamin mine, acquired with Silver Wheaton’s 2009 acquisition of Silverstone,
expires in April 2017. 
____________________________________2 Silver
equivalent production forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1
3 Silver Wheaton will file a technical report for the Salobo mine
within 45 days of February 5, 2013. For further details of the Salobo mineral
reserves, see the table appended to this material change report. 

- 3 - 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information" within the
meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking
statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact,
include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of
silver and gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the
realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated
future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve
conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally, these
forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as "plans", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected",
"budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates" or
"does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would",
"might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved". Forward-looking statements
are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may
cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of
Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by
such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in
the price of silver and gold; the absence of control over mining operations from
which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining
operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary
commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration
activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the
mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans
continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of
tax laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section
entitled "Description of the Business - Risk Factors" in Silver Wheaton's Annual
Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.
Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management believes to be
reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation of the mining
operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold, no material
adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining operations
will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance with their
public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, and such other
assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted
to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be
other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove
to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference
herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 
CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE REGARDING RESERVES AND RESOURCES

For further information on Mineral Reserves and Mineral
Resources and on Silver Wheaton more generally, readers should refer to Silver
Wheaton's Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2011, and
other continuous disclosure documents filed by Silver Wheaton since January 1,
2012, available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
Silver Wheaton's Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources are subject to the
qualifications and notes set forth therein. Mineral Resources which are not
Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. 
Cautionary Note to United States Investors Concerning
Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources: The
information contained herein uses the terms "Measured", "Indicated" and
"Inferred" Mineral Resources. United States investors are advised that while
such terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them and expressly
prohibits U.S. registered companies from including such terms in their filings
with the SEC. "Inferred Mineral Resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as
to their existence, and as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be
assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be
upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred
Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or other economic
studies. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any
part of Measured or Indicated Mineral Resources will ever be converted into
Mineral Reserves or that any exploration potential will ever be converted to any
category of Mineral Reserves or Mineral Resources. United States investors are
also cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral
Resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable. United States investors
are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F, a
copy of which may be obtained from Silver Wheaton or from http://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml.

- 4 - 

 
 6. 
 
 Reliance on subsection 7.1(2) of National
 Instrument 51-102
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 7. 
 
 Omitted Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 8. 
 
 Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For further information: please contact Patrick Drouin,
 Vice President, Investor Relations of Silver Wheaton at 1-800-380-8687 or
 info @silverwheaton.com.
 
 
 
 
 9. 
 
 Date of Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 February 15, 2013