EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

 

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX: SLW 
 
 February 28, 2013 
 NYSE: SLW 
SILVER WHEATON COMPLETES DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
WITH VALE S.A. AND DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT ON NEW CREDIT
FACILITIES 
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp.
(“Silver Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) is pleased to
announce that, further to the press release dated February 5, 2013, Silver
Wheaton has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire from a subsidiary of
Vale S.A. (“Vale”) (NYSE: VALE) an amount of gold equal to 25% of the life of
mine gold production from its Salobo Mine, located in Brazil, as well as 70% of
the gold production, for a 20-year term, from certain of its Sudbury Mines
located in Canada. The transaction is no longer subject to Vale board approval,
which has now been obtained. 
The Company will pay Vale, within 10 business days of this
press release, total cash consideration of US$1.90 billion, and has issued to
Vale 10 million Silver Wheaton warrants with a strike price of US$65 and a term
of 10 years1. US$1.33 billion will be paid for 25% of the gold
production from Salobo, while US$570 million, plus the 10 million Silver Wheaton
warrants issued to Vale, will be the consideration for 70% of the Sudbury gold
production. Silver Wheaton will make ongoing payments of the lesser of US$400
(subject to a 1% annual inflation adjustment from 2016 for Salobo) and the
prevailing market price, for each ounce of gold delivered under the
agreement.
In addition, Silver Wheaton has finalized the terms and entered
into two new unsecured credit facilities, comprised of (1) a $1 billion
revolving credit facility having a 5 year term (the “Revolving Facility”); and
(2) a $1.5 billion bridge financing facility having a 1 year term (the “Bridge
Facility”). The Revolving Facility and Bridge Facility replaced the $400 million
Revolver Loan and the Term Loan, with the latter being repaid in full on
February 22, 2013. For the Revolving Facility, Scotiabank and BMO Capital
Markets acted as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce, Royal Bank of Canada and The Toronto Dominion Bank acted as
Co-Documentation Agents and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (Canada), HSBC Bank
Canada and Export Development Canada acted as Senior Managers. For the Bridge
Facility, Scotiabank and BMO Capital Markets acted as Co-Lead Arrangers and
Joint Bookrunners, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Royal Bank of Canada
acted as Co-Documentation Agents and The Toronto Dominion Bank and Export
Development Canada acted as Senior Managers. Combined with cash on hand,
the additional credit capacity offered by these new credit facilities provides
Silver Wheaton with sufficient access to capital to fund the upfront payment to
Vale, while continuing its pursuit of additional accretive growth opportunities.
_______________________1 The issue of the
warrants is subject to receipt of all requisite regulatory approvals including
those from the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.

- 2 - 
ABOUT SILVER WHEATON 
Silver Wheaton is the largest precious metals streaming company
in the world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2013 attributable
production is approximately 33.5 million silver equivalent ounces1,
including 145 thousand ounces of gold. By 2017, annual attributable production
is anticipated to increase significantly to approximately 53 million silver
equivalent ounces1, including 180 thousand ounces of gold. This
growth is driven by the Company’s portfolio of low-cost and long-life assets,
including silver and precious metal streams on Barrick’s Pascua-Lama project,
Hudbay’s Constancia project, and Vale’s Salobo and Sudbury mines. 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information" within the
meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking
statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact,
include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of
silver and gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the
realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated
future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve
conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally, these
forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as "plans", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected",
"budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates" or
"does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would",
"might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved". Forward-looking statements
are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may
cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of
Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by
such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in
the price of silver and gold; the absence of control over mining operations from
which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining
operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary
commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration
activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the
mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans
continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of
tax laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section
entitled "Description of the Business - Risk Factors" in Silver Wheaton's Annual
Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.
Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management believes to be
reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation of the mining
operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold, no material
adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining operations
will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance with their
public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, and such other
assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted
to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be
other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove
to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference
herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 
CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE REGARDING RESERVES AND RESOURCES

For further information on Mineral Reserves and Mineral
Resources and on Silver Wheaton more generally, readers should refer to Silver
Wheaton’s Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2011, and other continuous disclosure documents filed by
Silver Wheaton since January 1, 2012, available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. Silver Wheaton’s Mineral Reserves and
Mineral Resources are subject to the qualifications and notes set forth therein.
Mineral Resources which are not Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated
economic viability. 
_______________________1 Silver equivalent
production forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1 

- 3 - 
Cautionary Note to United States Investors Concerning
Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources: The
information contained herein uses the terms “Measured”, “Indicated” and
“Inferred” Mineral Resources. United States investors are advised that while
such terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them and expressly
prohibits U.S. registered companies from including such terms in their filings
with the SEC. “Inferred Mineral Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as
to their existence, and as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be
assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be
upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred
Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or other economic
studies. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any
part of Measured or Indicated Mineral Resources will ever be converted into
Mineral Reserves or that any exploration potential will ever be converted to any
category of Mineral Reserves or Mineral Resources. United States investors are
also cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral
Resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable. United States investors
are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Silver Wheaton’s Form 40-F, a
copy of which may be obtained from Silver Wheaton or from http://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml.
Mr. Neil Burns, Silver Wheaton’s Vice President, Technical
Services, is a “qualified person” as such term is defined under National
Instrument 43-101, and has reviewed and approved the technical disclosure in
this news release. 
For further information, please contact: Patrick
Drouin
Vice President, Investor Relations
Silver Wheaton Corp.
Tel: 1-800-380-8687
Email: info@silverwheaton.com
Website: www.silverwheaton.com