EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

Exhibit 99.1

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX:SLW 
 
 May 17, 2012 
 NYSE:SLW 
SILVER WHEATON ANNOUNCES FILING OF NI 43-101
TECHNICAL REPORT FOR THE SAN DIMAS MINE 
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (“Silver
Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) is pleased to announce that it
has filed a National Instrument 43-101 ("NI 43-101") compliant technical report
in support of the Company's April 2, 2012 news release which included an updated
reserve and resource estimate at Primero Mining Corp.’s San Dimas Mine located
in Mexico.
The independent technical report, entitled "San Dimas Property,
San Dimas District, Durango and Sinaloa States, Mexico, Technical Report for
Silver Wheaton Corp." (the "Technical Report"), dated April 16, 2012, was
prepared by AMC Mining Consultants (Canada) Ltd. and authored by J.M. Shannon,
P.Geo., R. Webster, M.AIG, H.A. Smith, P.Eng., and A. Riles, M.AIG, all
Qualified Persons as defined by, and independent of Silver Wheaton for the
purposes of, NI 43-101 requirements. The Technical Report is available on SEDAR
at www.sedar.com and on the Company's website at www.silverwheaton.com. 
About Silver Wheaton 
Silver Wheaton is the largest silver streaming company in the
world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2012 attributable production
is approximately 27 million silver equivalent ounces, including 16,500 ounces of
gold. By 2016, annual attributable production is anticipated to increase
significantly to approximately 43 million silver equivalent ounces, including
35,000 ounces of gold. This growth is driven by the Company’s portfolio of
world-class assets, including silver streams on Goldcorp’s Peñasquito mine and
Barrick’s Pascua-Lama project. 

- 2 - 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

The information contained herein contains “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the
meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking
statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact,
include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of
silver and gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the
realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated
future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve
conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally, these
forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as “plans”, “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”,
“budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates” or
“does not anticipate”, or “believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”,
“might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements
are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may
cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of
Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by
such forward-looking statements,
including but not limited to: fluctuations in the price of silver and gold; the absence of control over mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining operations including risks related to
fluctuations in the price of the primary commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the mining operations are located and changes in project
parameters as plans continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of tax laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section entitled “Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in
Silver Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions
management believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold, no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining
operations will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance with their public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, and such other assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton has
attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can
be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that are
included or incorporated by reference herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 

For further information, please contact: 

Brad Kopp 
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
Silver Wheaton Corp. 
Tel: 1-800-380-8687 
Email: info@silverwheaton.com 
Website: www.silverwheaton.com