EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED SEPTEMBER 16, 2024

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

Wheaton Precious Metals Launches $1 Million Future
of Mining Challenge

VANCOUVER, BC, Sept. 16, 2024 /CNW/ - Wheaton
Precious Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce the launch of the inaugural Future
of Mining Challenge, which will award US$1 million to a winning venture to advance their technology. Given Wheaton's diversified global
portfolio, the Company is committed to advancing the mining industry's sustainability efforts. This initiative supports innovative technologies
aimed at minimizing environmental impacts, improving efficiencies, and contributing to climate solutions, while ensuring key resources
are responsibly available for future generations.

"Mining is integral to every facet of our daily
lives, providing the essential materials that are needed for our society," said Randy Smallwood, President & Chief Executive
Officer of Wheaton. "From the metals used and found in our infrastructure and technology, to those needed for a transition to a low-carbon
economy, we continue to rely on the resources from the mining industry. It is critical that we foster innovation and collaboration to
improve the future of mining, with a goal of making current practices more efficient and sustainable."

The Future of Mining Challenge invites cleantech companies
from around the world to submit and propose industry solutions. This year's challenge focuses on identifying eligible technologies with
the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across mining operations. In alignment with Wheaton's business model, the solutions should
be applicable for base and/or precious metal mining. They should also be scalable globally, with the aim of future implementation at operating
mines. The challenge will be supported by Foresight Canada.

"Wheaton is committed to supporting the industry
by advancing technologies and fostering new solutions that have the potential to improve efficiencies at operations and reduce the impact
of mining activities," said Patrick Drouin, Chief Sustainability Officer and President of Wheaton Precious Metals International.
"As long-term investors, we recognize that while the industry continues to improve, there are opportunities to address key challenges
to ensure that mining can sustainably and responsibly deliver the commodities needed for future generations."

"Foresight is committed to supporting the world's
largest industries to be more environmentally and economically prosperous through innovation programs with partners like Wheaton Precious
Metals", said Jeanette Jackson, Chief Executive Officer of Foresight Canada. "By working together, we will seek to identify
solutions whose goal is to not only reduce emissions but enhance the productivity and profitability of the global mining sector. We are
excited to see the innovations that emerge."

Submissions for challenge applications open on September
18, 2024, and the winner will be announced in March 2025 at the PDAC Convention in Toronto, the world's largest mining conference. 

About Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

Wheaton Precious Metals is a leading precious metals
streaming company, providing shareholders with access to a high-quality portfolio of low-cost, long-life mines around the world. Through
strategic streaming agreements, Wheaton partners with mining companies to secure a portion of their future precious metal production.
Committed to responsible mining practices, Wheaton utilizes industry-leading due diligence practices with a goal of unlocking long-term
value for shareholders while supporting the broader mining industry in delivering the commodities society needs through access to capital.

About Foresight Canada 

Foresight Canada helps the world do more with less,
sustainably. As Canada's largest cleantech innovation and adoption accelerator, we connect public and private sectors to the world's
best clean technologies. We de-risk and simplify adoption of solutions that improve productivity, profitability, and economic competitiveness,
all while addressing urgent climate challenges. We are well-positioned to lead the green economic transition, having supported 1,280+
companies to generate $511M in revenue and $1.77B in capital support, run 60+ industry challenges, created 8,760+ green jobs, and reduced
a projected 70+ Mt of GHG emissions.

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking-Statements

This press release contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information"
within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning the business, operations and financial performance of Wheaton.
Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements
with respect to climate change and ESG commitments by Wheaton and at mineral stream interests currently owned by Wheaton (the "Mining
Operations"), the ability of any technology identified in the Wheaton Future of Mining Challenge to potentially minimize environmental
impacts, improve efficiencies, or contribute to climate solutions in the mining industry, the process for the identification and
selection of an award recipient under the Wheaton Future of Mining Challenge, the payment of $1 million to an award recipient, and the
ability of an award recipient to potentially reduce greenhouse gas emissions across mining operations. Forward-looking statements are
subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance
or achievements of Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements including (without
limitation) risks related to climate change, environmental, social and governance matters, the ability to achieve ESG commitments and
goals at both Wheaton and the Mining Operations, the ability to identify a technology that minimizes environmental impacts, improve efficiencies,
or contribute to climate solutions in the mining industry, the process for the identification and selection of an award recipient
under the Wheaton Future of Mining Challenge, the payment of $1 million to an award recipient, and the ability of an award recipient to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions across mining operations and other risks discussed in the section entitled "Description of the
Business – Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca and Wheaton's Form 40-F
for the year ended December 31, 2023 filed March 28, 2024 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR and the risks identified
under "Risks and Uncertainties" in Wheaton's Management's Discussion and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2023, available
on SEDAR+ and in Wheaton's Form 6-K filed March 19, 2024. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management currently believes
to be reasonable, including (without limitation) that climate change and ESG commitments and goals at both Wheaton and the Mining Operations
will be achieved, that technology identified in the Wheaton Future of Mining Challenge will potentially be able to minimize environmental
impacts, improve efficiencies, or contribute to climate solutions in the mining industry, that the process for the identification
and selection of an award recipient under the Wheaton Future of Mining Challenge will be successful, that the payment of $1 million to
an award recipient will be made, and that an award recipient will potentially be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across mining
operations. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate and even if events or results described
in the forward-looking statements are realized or substantially realized, there can be no assurance that they will have the expected consequences
to, or effects on, Wheaton. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements and are cautioned that actual outcomes
may vary. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, reflects Wheaton's management's current beliefs
based on current information and will not be updated except in accordance with applicable securities laws. There may be other factors
that cause results, performance or achievements not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-launches-1-million-future-of-mining-challenge-302248999.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

 

View original content to download multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/September2024/16/c7076.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: For further information: Media Contact,
Simona Antolak, Vice President, Communications & Corporate Affairs, Tel: 604-639-9870, Email: simona.antolak@wheatonpm.com; Investor
Contact, Emma Murray, Vice President, Investor Relations, Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 08:30e 16-SEP-24