EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX:SLW 
 
 March 20, 2014 
 NYSE:SLW 
SILVER WHEATON ADOPTS BY-LAW AMENDMENTS FOR
ADVANCE NOTICE FOR DIRECTOR NOMINATIONS, INCREASE TO
QUORUM FOR SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS AND UPDATE OF
NOTICE AND SIGNATURE PROVISIONS 
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (“Silver
Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) announces the adoption by its
Board of Directors (the “Board”) of amendments to its by-laws to (i) add a
provision that requires advance notice to the Company for director nominations,
(ii) increase the quorum for shareholder meetings from 10% to 25%, and (iii)
update of notice and signature provisions.
Advance Notice By-Law for Director Nominations 
The advance notice for director nominations provision would
apply in circumstances where director nominations are made by shareholders of
the Company, other than in connection with (i) the requisition of a
shareholders’ meeting, or (ii) a shareholder proposal, in each case made
pursuant to the Business Corporations Act (Ontario) (the “Advance Notice
Provision”). 
Among other things, the Advance Notice Provision fixes a
deadline by which holders of record of common shares of the Company must submit
director nominations to the Company prior to any annual or special meeting of
shareholders and sets forth the information that a shareholder must include in
the notice to the Company. In the case of an annual meeting of shareholders,
notice to the Company must be made not less than 30 days and not more than 65
days prior to the date of the annual meeting; provided, however, that in the
event that the annual meeting is to be held on a date that is less than 50 days
after the date on which the first public announcement of the date of the annual
meeting was made, notice may be made not later than the close of business on the
10th day following such public announcement. 
In the case of a special meeting of shareholders (which is not
also an annual meeting), notice to the Company must be made no later than the
close of business on the 15th day following the day on which the
first public announcement of the date of the special meeting was made. 
The Advance Notice Provision provides a clear process for
shareholders to follow for director nominations and sets out a reasonable time
frame for nominee submissions and the provision of accompanying information. The
Advance Notice Provision should ensure that all shareholders receive adequate
notice of the nominations to be considered at a meeting and can thereby exercise
their voting rights in an informed manner. In addition, the Advance Notice Provision should assist
in facilitating an orderly and efficient meeting process. 

- 2 - 
Increase in Quorum for Shareholder Meetings 
The Company has typically had a large percentage of its
shareholders represented at annual general meetings. However, in accordance with
good corporate governance practice, the quorum for shareholder meetings was
increased from 10% to 25% of the issued shares of the Company to be represented
at the meeting in person or by proxy. The increase in quorum should assist the
Company in continuing to have a large number of shareholders represented at
shareholder meetings.
Updated Notice and Signature Provisions 
The evolution of technology and ongoing changes to the
framework for the delivery of documents to shareholders means that the Company
must be in a position to respond to, and take advantage of, these future
changes. The expansion of the Company’s notice and signature provisions to
include all digital, optical and other similar means will allow the Company to
be well-positioned to take advantage of any future technological changes and any
cost savings that may result.
All of the by-law amendments are effective immediately and will
be placed before shareholders for ratification and confirmation at the next
annual and special meeting of shareholders of the Company to be held on May 9,
2014. A copy of the by-law amendments has been filed under the Company’s SEDAR
profile at www.sedar.com. 
About Silver Wheaton 
Silver Wheaton is the largest precious metals streaming company
in the world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2014 attributable
production is approximately 36 million silver equivalent ounces1,
including 155,000 ounces of gold. By 2018, annual attributable production is
anticipated to increase significantly to approximately 48 million silver
equivalent ounces1, including 250,000 ounces of gold. This growth is
driven by the Company’s portfolio of low-cost and long-life assets, including
precious metal and gold streams on Hudbay’s Constancia project and Vale’s Salobo
and Sudbury mines.
___________________________________________1
Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 60:1.

- 3 - 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS
The information contained herein contains “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable
Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking statements, which are all
statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not
limited to, statements with respect to the future price of silver or gold, the
estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the realization of mineral reserve
estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production, costs of
production, reserve determination, reserve conversion rates, statements as to
any future dividends, the ability to fund outstanding commitments and continue
to acquire accretive precious metal stream interests and assessments of the
impact of various legal and tax matters. Generally, these forward-looking
statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as
“plans”, “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”,
“estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates” or “does not anticipate”, or
“believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will be taken”,
“occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, operations,
level of activity, performance or achievements of Silver Wheaton to be
materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in the price of silver or
gold; the absence of control over mining operations from which Silver Wheaton
purchases silver and gold and risks related to these mining operations including
risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary commodities mined at
such operations, actual results of mining and exploration activities,
environmental, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the
mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans
continue to be refined; differences in the interpretation or application of tax
laws and regulations; and the Company’s interpretation of, or compliance with,
tax laws, is found to be incorrect; as well as those factors discussed in the
section entitled “Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in Silver
Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in
Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on
assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to:
the continued operation of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton
purchases silver and gold, no material adverse change in the market price of
commodities, that the mining operations will operate and the mining projects
will be completed in accordance with their public statements and achieve their
stated production outcomes, the continuing ability to fund or obtain funding for
outstanding commitments, the ability to source and obtain accretive precious
metal stream interests, expectations regarding the resolution of legal and tax
matters, and such other assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although
Silver Wheaton has attempted to identify important factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking
statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as
anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that
forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. Accordingly, readers
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements and are cautioned
that actual outcomes may vary. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference
herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 
For further information, please contact: 
Patrick Drouin Vice President, Investor Relations
Silver Wheaton Corp. Tel: 1-800-380-8687 Email: info@silverwheaton.com Website: www.silverwheaton.com