EX-99.1
2
exhibit991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED OCTOBER 31, 2008

Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.1

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
TSX:SLW

October 31, 2008
NYSE:SLW

 

SILVER WHEATON AND AUGUSTA RESOURCE SIGN NEW LETTER OF INTENT

Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (TSX, NYSE:SLW) announced today that it has signed a letter of intent with Augusta Resource Corporation (TSX, AMEX:AZC) dated October 31, 2008 regarding a new silver purchase agreement. The new letter supercedes the December 19, 2007 letter of intent between Silver Wheaton and Augusta. An update of Augusta’s August 2007 bankable feasibility study, reflecting an increased mineral resource, is expected to be completed by the end of December 2008, following which Silver Wheaton and Augusta intend to discuss an efficient structure for a transaction between them. Both companies consider that it is in their best interests to negotiate and complete the new transaction based on a percentage of silver to be determined once the updated study has been completed.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS
This news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of silver, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production, costs of production, reserve determination and reserve conversion rates. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “plans”, “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates” or “does not anticipate”, or “believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: risks related to the integration of acquisitions, the absence of control over mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver and risks related to these mining operations, including risks related to international operations, actual results of current exploration activities, actual results of current reclamation activities, conclusions of economic evaluations, changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined, as well as those factors discussed in the section entitled “Description of the Business – Risk Factors” in Silver Wheaton’s annual information form for the year ended December 31, 2007 incorporated by reference into Silver Wheaton’s Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that are incorporated by reference herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws.

For further information, please contact:

Brad Kopp
Director, Investor Relations 
Silver Wheaton Corp.
Tel: 1-800-380-8687
Email: info@silverwheaton.com
Website: www.silverwheaton.com

Silver Wheaton is a trademark of Silver Wheaton Corp.