EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED NOVEMBER 6, 2025

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

DIVIDEND DECLARATION - Wheaton Precious Metals
Announces Quarterly Dividend

VANCOUVER, BC, Nov. 4, 2025 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious
Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has declared its
fourth quarterly cash dividend payment for 2025 of US$0.165 per common share, an increase of 6.5% relative to the fourth quarterly cash
dividend declared in 2024.

The fourth quarterly cash dividend for 2025 will be
paid to holders of record of Wheaton common shares as of the close of business on November 20, 2025, and will be distributed on or about
December 4, 2025. The ex-dividend trading date is November 20, 2025.

The declaration, timing, amount and payment of future
dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an 'eligible dividend' for Canadian income tax
purposes.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company has previously implemented a Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRIP"). Participation in the DRIP is optional. For
the purposes of this quarterly dividend, the Company has elected to issue common shares under the DRIP through treasury at the Average
Market Price, as defined in the DRIP, without a discount.

The Company may, from time to time, in its discretion,
apply, change or eliminate any discount applicable to Treasury Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, or direct that such common shares
be purchased in Market Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, at the prevailing market price, any of which would be publicly announced.

The DRIP enrollment forms, including direct deposit,
are available for download on the Company's website at www.wheatonpm.com, in the 'Investors' section under the 'Shareholder information'
and 'Dividends' tabs.

Registered shareholders may also enroll in the DRIP
online through the plan agent's self-service web portal at: https://tsxtrust.com/DRIP

Beneficial shareholders should contact their financial
intermediary to arrange enrollment. All shareholders considering enrollment in the DRIP should carefully review the terms of the DRIP
and consult with their advisors as to the implications of enrollment in the DRIP.

Transfer Agent Change
The Company announces that Odyssey Trust Company will replace TSX Trust as its transfer agent for both Canadian and US services, effective December
17, 2025. Shareholders do not need to take any action in respect to the change in transfer agent now. Effective December 17, 2025, all
inquiries and correspondence relating to shareholders' records, transfer of shares, lost certificates, changes of addresses or other inquiries
related to shares should be directed to Odyssey Trust Company as follows:

 
 Odyssey Trust Company
 
 Address:
 
 United Kingdom Building
 350-409 Granville Street
 Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
 V6C 1T2
 
 Direct Dial:
 1-587-885-0960
 
 Canada & US (toll-free):
 1-888-290-1175
 
 Email:
 shareholders@odysseytrust.com
 
 Contact Odyssey through their website at:
 https://odysseytrust.com/ca-en/help/
 
 

This press release is not an offer to sell
or a solicitation of an offer of securities. A registration statement relating to the DRIP has been filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and may be obtained under the Company's profile on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov.
A written copy of the prospectus included in the registration statement may be obtained by contacting the Corporate Secretary of the
Company at 1021 West Hastings Street, Suite 3500, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6E 0C3.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning
the business, operations and financial performance of Wheaton. Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements
of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to future dividends. Forward-looking statements are subject
to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements
of Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements including risks discussed in
the section entitled "Description of the Business – Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR+
at www.sedarplus.ca and Wheaton's Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2024 filed March 31, 2025 on file with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission on EDGAR and the risks identified under "Risks and Uncertainties" in Wheaton's Management's Discussion
and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2024, available on SEDAR+ and in Wheaton's Form 6-K to filed March 13, 2025. Forward-looking
statements are based on assumptions management currently believes to be reasonable, including (without limitation) that there will be
no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that estimations of future production from the mining operations and mineral
reserves and resources are accurate, that the mining operations from which Wheaton purchases precious metals will continue to operate,
that each party will satisfy their obligations in accordance with the precious metals purchase agreements and royalty agreements, and
that Wheaton's application of the CRA Settlement (including the Company's assessment that there will be no material change in the Company's
facts or change in law or jurisprudence for years subsequent to 2010) and Wheaton's interpretation of, compliance with, and application
of the 15% global minimum tax, are accurate and that expectations regarding the resolution of legal and tax matters will be achieved (including
CRA audits involving the Company).

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/dividend-declaration---wheaton-precious-metals-announces-quarterly-dividend-302607949.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

 

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/November2025/06/c9564.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: For further information, please contact:
Emma Murray, Vice President, Investor Relations, Wheaton Precious Metals Corp., Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 18:44e 06-NOV-25