EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED APRIL 20, 2020

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

 

Wheaton Precious Metals Announces US$5
Million Community Support and Response Fund to Combat COVID-19

TSX:WPM 
 NYSE: WPM

VANCOUVER, April 20, 2020 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious
Metals ("Wheaton") announces the launch of a US$5 million Community Support and Response Fund (the "CSR Fund")
in order to support the global efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts on our communities. The CSR Fund is designed
to meet the immediate needs of the communities in which Wheaton operates and around the mines from which Wheaton receives precious
metals. This fund is incremental to Wheaton's already active Community Investment Program that currently provides support to over
50 programs in multiple communities around the world.

"Although both Wheaton and our partners
have been impacted as result of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is clear that many of our neighbours in the community face even greater
challenges and will continue to do so over the coming months. I am pleased with our ongoing commitment to maintain and strengthen
all of our existing charitable support programs, and I am proud to fund an additional US$5 million towards the front lines in fighting
this pandemic," said Randy Smallwood, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wheaton. "We extend our deepest sympathies
to everyone that has been impacted by COVID-19. It is during challenging times like these when charity is most important - it is
simply the right thing to do."

"We are grateful to Wheaton Precious Metals
for supporting our fight against COVID-19," said Mark Travers, CEO of Vale Base Metals. "It is a testament to our partnership
with Wheaton in Canada and Brazil and reinforces our mutual interest in the long-term health and prosperity of communities where
we operate."

Wheaton Community Support and Response Fund

Wheaton is pledging US$5 million to establish
the Wheaton CSR Fund. Wheaton will partner with both charitable organizations and our mining partners to support employees
and host communities throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Eighty percent of the CSR Fund will be targeted to the communities that
are directly influenced by the mines on which we have precious metals streaming agreements and the remainder will be allocated
to local programs in Vancouver and Grand Cayman where our offices are located. 

The CSR Fund will be designed to meet the immediate
needs of the community and provide relief in the following areas of support: Community Healthcare, Food Security and
Social Economic Impacts.

Wheaton will work closely with our partners
to identify the needs of the community and assess where funds could help fill an immediate gap. Wheaton has already identified
Community Healthcare and Food Security initiatives with its partners around the San Dimas, Constancia, Sudbury, Stillwater and
777 mines that will target providing resources such as mobile lab facilities, ventilators and personal protective equipment to
those local communities as well as providing support to the local food banks. The Company is in detailed discussions with our other
partners to identify where funds can have the most impact.

Locally, Wheaton has identified a number of
organizations targeting these areas of support and will continue outreach to identify where our contributions can make the greatest
impact.

Wheaton Community Investment Program

Through our already active Community Investment
Program, Wheaton proudly supports many local fundraising events benefitting non-profit organizations that provide important services
and support to our communities. We understand the difficult times ahead given the cancellations and postponements of many key events
that raise the funds needed to operate these programs. We stand by our commitments and will continue to support organizations such
as the BC Cancer Foundation, Special Olympics BC, Coast Mental Health, Canadian Cancer Society, The Nature Trust of British Columbia
and Lions Gate Hospital Foundation, among many more. Going forward, Wheaton is committed to working together with its partners
and stakeholders to overcome the unprecedented social and economic challenges that we now face around the world.

About Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

Wheaton is the world's premier precious metals
streaming company with the highest-quality portfolio of long-life, low-cost assets. Its business model offers investors commodity
price leverage and exploration upside but with a much lower risk profile than a traditional mining company. Wheaton delivers amongst
the highest cash operating margins in the mining industry, allowing it to pay a competitive dividend and continue to grow through
accretive acquisitions. As a result, Wheaton has consistently outperformed gold and silver, as well as other mining investments.
Wheaton creates sustainable value through streaming.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS 

This press release contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning the establishment and operation of
the Wheaton Community Support and Response Fund and the impact of COVID-19. These forward-looking statements are subject to known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements
of Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements including but not limited
to uncertainties relating to the global economic and social impact of COVID-19 which could have significant financial and other
impacts on Wheaton or our partners' mining operations, the ability to operate the Wheaton Community Support and Response Fund internationally
given the potential for significant impacts on the health and welfare of communities, ongoing restrictions on travel and significant
impacts to the business of our partners' mining operations the risks discussed in the section entitled "Description of the
Business – Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com, and in Wheaton's
Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed on the SEC's EDGAR system available at www.sec.gov (the "Disclosure").
These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management currently believes to be reasonable, including (without limitation):
that neither Wheaton nor our partners' mining operations will suffer significant impacts as a result of the COVID-19 virus pandemic,
that Wheaton will be able to establish and operate the Wheaton Community Support and Response Fund as described and such other
assumptions and factors as set out in the Disclosure. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be
accurate and even if events or results described in the forward-looking statements are realized or substantially realized, there
can be no assurance that they will have the expected consequences to, or effects on, Wheaton. Readers should not place undue reliance
on forward-looking statements and are cautioned that actual outcomes may vary. The forward-looking statements included herein are
for the purpose of providing readers with information to assist them in understanding Wheaton's expected financial and operational
performance and may not be appropriate for other purposes. Any forward looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it
is made, reflects Wheaton's management's current beliefs based on current information and will not be updated except in accordance
with applicable securities laws. Although Wheaton has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results,
level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may
be other factors that cause results, level of activity, performance or achievements not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.

View original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-announces-us5-million-community-support-and-response-fund-to-combat-covid-19-301043196.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

 

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/April2020/20/c8050.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: Patrick Drouin, Senior Vice President,
Investor Relations, Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.; Andre Budylin, Vice President, Commercial and Sustainability, Wheaton Precious
Metals International Ltd.; Wheaton Precious Metals, Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 08:55e 20-APR-20