EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX:SLW 
 
 March 31, 2014 
 NYSE:SLW 
SILVER WHEATON PROVIDES DETAILS OF ANNUAL AND SPECIAL
MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS, FILES FORM 40-F ANDEXTENDS NON-REVOLVING
TERM LOAN 
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (“Silver
Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) announces that its Form 40-F
report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is
available on EDGAR. The Company’s 2013 audited financial statements, along with
its Form 40-F, are also available on the Company’s website at
www.silverwheaton.com.
Shareholders may also receive a copy of Silver Wheaton's
audited financial statements, without charge, upon request to Silver Wheaton's
Investor Relations Department, Suite 3150, 666 Burrard St., Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada V6C 2X8 or to info@silverwheaton.com. 
Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders 
Silver Wheaton will hold its Annual and Special Meeting of
Shareholders in the Mackenzie Ballroom of the Fairmont Waterfront Hotel, 900
Canada Place Way, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Friday May 9, 2014, at
1:00 p.m. Pacific Time. 
A live audio webcast of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders will
be available at www.silverwheaton.com and will also be archived for later
access.
Extension of Non-Revolving Term Loan 
In accordance with the provisions of the Company’s US$1 billion
non-revolving term loan (“NRT Loan”), Silver Wheaton has extended the term of
the NRT Loan by one year to May 28, 2017. As of December 31, 2013, Silver
Wheaton had $1 billion outstanding under the NRT Loan.
Appointment of Senior Vice President, Investor Relations

Silver Wheaton is pleased to announce the appointment of Mr.
Patrick Drouin as Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, effective March 20,
2014. Mr. Drouin joined the Company in 2012 as Vice President, Investor
Relations bringing 11 years of experience in the financial industry coupled with
an MBA and Masters degree in geology. 

- 2 - 
About Silver Wheaton 
Silver Wheaton is the largest precious metals streaming company
in the world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2014 annual
attributable production is approximately 36 million silver equivalent
ounces1, including 155,000 ounces of gold. By 2018, annual
attributable production is anticipated to increase significantly to
approximately 48 million silver equivalent ounces1, including 250,000
ounces of gold. This growth is driven by the Company’s portfolio of low-cost and
long-life assets, including precious metal and gold streams on Hudbay’s
Constancia project and Vale’s Salobo and Sudbury mines. 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS
The information contained herein contains “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable
Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking statements, which are all
statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not
limited to, statements with respect to the future price of silver or gold, the
estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the realization of mineral reserve
estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production (including 2014
and 2018 attributable annual production), costs of production, reserve
determination, reserve conversion rates, statements as to any future dividends,
the ability to fund outstanding commitments and continue to acquire accretive
precious metal stream interests and assessments of the impact and resolution of
various legal and tax matters. Generally, these forward-looking statements can
be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “plans”,
“expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”,
“estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates” or “does not anticipate”, or
“believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain
actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will be taken”,
“occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual
results, operations, level of activity, performance or achievements of Silver
Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in the
price of silver or gold; the absence of control over mining operations from
which Silver Wheaton purchases silver and gold and risks related to these mining
operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary
commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration
activities, environmental, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in
which the mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as
plans continue to be refined; differences in the interpretation or application
of tax laws and regulations; and the Company’s interpretation of, or compliance
with, tax laws, is found to be incorrect; as well as those factors discussed in
the section entitled “Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in Silver
Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in
Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on
assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to:
the continued operation of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton
purchases silver and gold, no material adverse change in the market price of
commodities, that the mining operations will operate and the mining projects
will be completed in accordance with their public statements and achieve their
stated production outcomes, the continuing ability to fund or obtain funding for
outstanding commitments, the ability to source and obtain accretive precious
metal stream interests, expectations regarding the resolution of legal and tax
matters, and such other assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although
Silver Wheaton has attempted to identify important factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking
statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as
anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that
forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. Accordingly, readers
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements and are cautioned
that actual outcomes may vary. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference
herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 
For further information, please contact: 

 
 Patrick Drouin 
 
 Senior Vice President, Investor Relations 
 
 Silver Wheaton Corp. 
 
 Tel: 1-800-380-8687 
 
 Email: info@silverwheaton.com 
 
 Website: www.silverwheaton.com
 
____________________________________1 Silver
equivalent production forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 60:1.