EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED MARCH 11, 2020

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

 

Wheaton Precious Metals Increases Minimum
Quarterly Dividend by 11% for 2020

TSX: WPM 
NYSE: WPM

VANCOUVER, March 11, 2020 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious
Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has declared
its first quarterly cash dividend payment for 2020 of US$0.10 per common share, an 11% increase relative to the prior period.

First Quarterly Dividend
The first quarterly cash dividend for 2020 of US$0.10 will be paid to holders of record of Wheaton Precious Metals
common shares as of the close of business on March 26, 2020, and will be distributed on or about April 9, 2020.

Under the Company's dividend policy, the quarterly
dividend per common share is targeted to equal approximately 30% of the average cash generated by operating activities in the previous
four quarters divided by the Company's then outstanding common shares, all rounded to the nearest cent. To minimize volatility
in quarterly dividends, the Company has set a minimum quarterly dividend of $0.10 per common share for the duration of 2020 representing
an 11% increase relative to 2019. Under the new minimum dividend policy, the forecast annualized dividend for 2020 would represent
an increase of more than 90% over a five-year period.

The declaration, timing, amount and payment
of future dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an 'eligible dividend' for Canadian
income tax purposes.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company has previously implemented a Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRIP"). Participation in the DRIP is optional.
For the purposes of this fourth quarterly dividend, the Company has elected to issue common shares under the DRIP through
treasury at a 1% discount to the Average Market Price, as defined in the DRIP. However, the Company may, from time to time, in
its discretion, change or eliminate the discount applicable to Treasury Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, or direct that
such common shares be purchased in Market Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, at the prevailing market price, any
of which would be publicly announced.

The DRIP and enrollment forms, including direct
deposit, are available for download on the Company's website at www.wheatonpm.com, accessible by quick links directly from the
home page, and can also be found in the 'investors' section, under the 'dividends' tab.

Registered shareholders may also enroll in
the DRIP online through the plan agent's self-service web portal at: https://www.canstockta.com/en/InvestorServices/Investor_Information/Issuer_List/IssuerDetail.jsp?companyCode=1501.

Beneficial shareholders should contact their
financial intermediary to arrange enrollment. All shareholders considering enrollment in the DRIP should carefully review the terms
of the DRIP and consult with their advisors as to the implications of enrollment in the DRIP.

This press release is not an offer to sell
or a solicitation of an offer of securities. A registration statement relating to the DRIP has been filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and may be obtained under the Company's profile on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's website
at http://www.sec.gov. A written copy of the prospectus included in the registration statement may be obtained by contacting the
Corporate Secretary of the Company at 1021 West Hastings Street, Suite 3500, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6E 0C3.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS 

This press release contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking
information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning the business, operations and financial
performance of Wheaton. Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, include,
but are not limited to, statements with respect to future dividends. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Wheaton
to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements including risks discussed in the
section entitled "Description of the Business – Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com, and in Wheaton's Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2018 and Form 6-K filed March 20, 2019 both
on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions
management currently believes to be reasonable, including (without limitation) that there will be no material adverse change in
the market price of commodities, that the mining operations from which Wheaton purchases precious metals will continue to operate,
that each party will satisfy their obligations in accordance with the precious metals purchase agreements and that Wheaton's application
of the CRA Settlement for years subsequent to 2010 is accurate (including the Company's assessment that there will be no material
change in the Company's facts or change in law or jurisprudence for years subsequent to 2010).

View original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-increases-minimum-quarterly-dividend-by-11-for-2020-301021880.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/March2020/11/c8483.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: Patrick Drouin, Senior Vice President,
Investor Relations, Wheaton Precious Metals Corp., Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com, Website: www.wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 17:13e 11-MAR-20