EX-99.1
2
wpm-20260401xex99d1.htm
EX-99.1

Exhibit 99.1​​Notice of 2026 Annual and Special Meetingof Shareholders & Notice of Availability ofMeeting Materials​NOTICE AND ACCESS NOTIFICATION TO SHAREHOLDERSYou are receiving this notification as Wheaton Precious Metals Corp. (the “Company”) uses the notice and access model for the delivery of its information circular to its shareholders in respect of its annual and special meeting of shareholders to be held on May 8, 2026 (the “Meeting”). Under notice and access, instead of receiving paper copies of the Company’s management information circular for the year ended December 31, 2025 (the “Information Circular”), shareholders are receiving this notice with information on how they may access the Information Circular electronically. However, together with this notification, shareholders continue to receive a proxy or voting instruction form (“VIF”), as applicable, enabling them to vote at the Meeting. The Company has adopted an online virtual meeting platform in addition to the in person meeting location and shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Meeting using this online platform. See important information below on voting at the Meeting using the online platform.MEETING DATE AND LOCATION​Important Hybrid Meeting InformationDate è May 8, 2026Time è 1:30p.m. (ET)Virtualè https://meetings.lumiconnect.com/400-025-911-054In personè Studio Six Room, Conrad Hotel New York Downtown, 102 North End Avenue, New York, NY 10282 USA​HOW TO ACCESS THE INFORMATION CIRCULARThe Information Circular can be viewed online as follows:èThe Company’s website: www.wheatonpm.comèThe Company’s page on SEDAR+: www.sedarplus.caèThe Company’s filings on United States Securities and Exchange Commission: www.sec.govShareholders may request paper copies of the Information Circular be sent to them by postal delivery at no cost to them for up to one year from the date the Information Circular was filed on SEDAR+ by calling toll-free at 1-888-290-1175 or by emailing shareholders@odyseytrust.com. Requests for paper copies must be received at least five business days in advance of the proxy deposit date and time set out in the accompanying proxy or VIF in order to receive the Information Circular in advance of the proxy deposit date and Meeting. The Information Circular will be sent to such shareholders within three business days of their request if such requests are made before the Meeting. Those shareholders with existing instructions on their account to receive a paper copy of meeting materials will receive a paper copy of the Information Circular with this notification. Please note that if you request a paper copy of the Information Circular, you will not receive a new proxy form or VIF, so please keep the original form sent with this notice in order to vote. SHAREHOLDERS ARE REMINDED TO REVIEW THE INFORMATION CIRCULAR PRIOR TO VOTING.SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE ASKED TO CONSIDER AND VOTE ON THE FOLLOWING MATTERS:èFINANCIAL STATEMENTS: To receive the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2025 and the report of the auditors thereon.èELECTION OF DIRECTORS: To elect the ten director nominees. See the section entitled “Election of Directors” in the Information Circular.èAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS: To appoint Deloitte LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, as auditors for 2026 and to authorize the directors to fix the auditors’ remuneration. See the section entitled “Appointment of Auditors” in the Information Circular.èSAY ON PAY: To approve a non-binding advisory resolution on the Company’s approach to executive compensation. See the sections entitled “Executive Compensation” and “Say On Pay Advisory Vote” in the Information Circular.èOTHER BUSINESS: To transact any other business which may properly come before the Meeting or any adjournment of the Meeting.​​Shareholders with questions about notice and access can call toll free at 1-888-290-1175- 2 -VOTING – ONLINE VIRTUAL MEETING PLATFORMAll shareholders participating in our online virtual Meeting platform will be able listen to the Meeting live, ask questions online, and for registered shareholders or proxyholders, submit votes in real time. The online Meeting can be accessed at https://meetings.lumiconnect.com/400-025-911-054. Registered shareholders and duly appointed proxyholders (including non-registered shareholders who have duly appointed themselves as proxyholders) may enter the online Meeting platform by clicking “I have a login” and entering a control number or username and the password “wheaton2026” (case sensitive) before the start of the Meeting. Non-registered shareholders who wish to vote at the Meeting through the online virtual platform must insert their own name in the space provided on the VIF received from the nominee. In so doing, such non-registered shareholder will be instructing its nominee to appoint such non-registered shareholder as proxyholder. Non-registered shareholders must adhere strictly to the signature and return instructions provided by their nominee. It is not necessary to complete the form in any other respect, since such non-registered shareholder will be voting at the Meeting by voting online through the online virtual Meeting platform. Non-registered shareholders who wish to vote at the Meeting must register as proxyholder after having submitted your form of proxy or voting instruction form identifying such proxyholder. Failure to register the proxyholder will result in the proxyholder not receiving a username to participate in the Meeting. Without a username, proxyholders will not be able to attend, participate or vote at the Meeting. To register a proxyholder, Shareholders must send an email to appointee@odysseytrust.com and provide Odyssey with their proxyholder's contact information, amount of Shares appointed, and name of broker where the Shares are held, by 1:30 p.m. ET on Wednesday, May 6, 2026. Odyssey Trust Company will then provide the non-registered shareholder with a username by email after the proxy voting deadline has passed. The username is the non-registered shareholder’s control number for the purposes of logging into the Meeting. More information regarding participating in the Meeting online, including browser requirements, is detailed in the LUMI Virtual Meeting User Guide provided with this notice and access notification or on Wheaton’s website at www.wheatonpm.com.VOTING – PROXYFor shareholders who are unable to attend the online virtual Meeting or in person, they may choose to vote by proxy as follows:Registered shareholders are asked to return their proxies using the following methods by the proxy deposit date noted on your proxy:​CANADA AND UNITED STATESONLINE:Go to https://vote.odysseytrust.com and follow the instructions using the 12-digit control number located on the proxy.E-MAIL:Send to proxy@odysseytrust.com.MAIL:Complete the form of proxy, sign it and mail it using the return envelope that was provided to you. QR CODE:Vote by scanning the QR code included on the proxy to access the voting site from your mobile device.​Non-registered (or beneficial) shareholders are asked to return their voting instructions using the methods set out on their VIF or business reply envelope, or as set out below, at least one business day in advance of the proxy deposit date noted on your VIF:​CANADAUNITED STATESMAIL:Data Processing CentreP.O. Box 3700, STN INDUSTRIAL PARKMarkham, Ontario L3R 9Z9 CanadaMAIL:Proxy ServicesPO Box 9104Farmingdale, New York 11735-9533 USATELEPHONE:English: 1-800-474-7493French: 1-800-474-7501TELEPHONE:1-800-454-8683INTERNET:Go to www.proxyvote.com and follow the instructions using the 16-digit control number included in your VIF.INTERNET:Go to www.proxyvote.com and follow the instructions using the 16-digit control number included in your VIF.QR CODE:Vote by scanning the QR code included in your voting instruction form to access the voting site from your mobile device.QR CODE:Vote by scanning the QR code included in your voting instruction form to access the voting site from your mobile device.​​