EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED MARCH 24, 2011

 Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 

 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX: SLW 

 March 24, 2011 
 NYSE: SLW 
SILVER WHEATON FILES 2010 AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND PROVIDES DETAILS OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (“Silver Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX, NYSE:SLW) announces that its 2010 audited financial statements have been filed with the applicable Canadian securities regulatory authorities on SEDAR, as well as with the Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR. The audited financial statements are also available on the Company’s website at www.silverwheaton.com.
The Company plans to file its 2010 Annual Information Form on or before March 31, 2011 on SEDAR and by way of Form 40-F with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Shareholders may also receive a copy of Silver Wheaton's audited financial statements, without charge, upon request to Silver Wheaton's Investor Relations Department, Suite 3150, 666 Burrard St., Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6C 2X8 or to info@silverwheaton.com.
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
Silver Wheaton will hold the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the West Meeting Room of the Vancouver Convention Centre, 1055 Canada Place, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on May 20, 2011, at 11:00 a.m. Pacific Time.
A live audio webcast of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders will be available at www.silverwheaton.com and will also be archived for later access.
About Silver Wheaton
Silver Wheaton is the largest silver streaming company in the world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2011 attributable production is 27 to 28 million silver equivalent ounces, including 15,000 ounces of gold. By 2015, annual attributable production is anticipated to increase significantly to approximately 43 million silver equivalent ounces, including 35,000 ounces of gold. This growth is driven by the Company’s portfolio of world-class assets, including silver streams on Goldcorp’s Peñasquito mine and Barrick’s Pascua-Lama project.
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS
The information contained herein contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of silver and gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “plans”, “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates” or “does not anticipate”, or “believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in the price of silver and gold; the absence of control over mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of tax laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section entitled “Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in Silver Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold, no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining operations will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance with their public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, and such other assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws.

- 2 -
For further information, please contact:
Brad Kopp
Vice President, Investor Relations 
Silver Wheaton Corp.
Tel: 1-800-380-8687
Email: info@silverwheaton.com
Website: www.silverwheaton.com