EX-99.1
2
tm241503d4_ex99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 
 
 Notice
 of 2024 Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders & Notice of Availability
 of
 Meeting Materials
 
 

NOTICE AND ACCESS NOTIFICATION TO SHAREHOLDERS

 

You are receiving this notification as Wheaton
Precious Metals Corp. (the “Company”) uses the notice and access model for the delivery of its information circular
to its shareholders in respect of its annual and special meeting of shareholders to be held on May 10, 2024 (the “Meeting”).
Under notice and access, instead of receiving paper copies of the Company’s management information circular for the year ended
December 31, 2023 (the “Information Circular”), shareholders are receiving this notice with information on how
they may access the Information Circular electronically. However, together with this notification, shareholders continue to receive a
proxy or voting instruction form (“VIF”), as applicable, enabling them to vote at the Meeting. The Company has
adopted an online virtual meeting platform in addition to the in person meeting location and shareholders are encouraged to participate
in the Meeting using this online platform. See important information below on voting at the Meeting using the online platform.

 

MEETING DATE AND LOCATION

 

Important
Meeting Information 
 
Dateè
 May 10,
 2024
Timeè
 10:30a.m. (PST)
 
Virtualè
 https://virtual-meetings.tsxtrust.com/1596
 
In
personè
 Offices
 of Cassels, Brock & Blackwell LLP, Suite 2200 HSBC Building, 885 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia
 V6C 3E8
 
 

HOW TO ACCESS THE INFORMATION CIRCULAR

 

The Information Circular can be viewed online
as follows:

 

èThe
 Company’s website: www.wheatonpm.com/Investors/annual-general-meeting

 

èThe
 Company’s page on SEDAR+: www.sedarplus.ca 

 

èThe
 Company’s filings on United States Securities and Exchange Commission: www.sec.gov

 

Shareholders may
request paper copies of the Information Circular be sent to them by postal delivery at no cost to them for up to one year from the date
the Information Circular was filed on SEDAR by calling toll-free at 1-888-433-6443 or by emailing tsxt-fulfilment@tmx.com.
Requests for paper copies must be received at least five business days in advance of the proxy deposit date and time set out in the
accompanying proxy or VIF in order to receive the Information Circular in advance of the proxy deposit date and Meeting. The Information
Circular will be sent to such shareholders within three business days of their request if such requests are made before the Meeting.
Those shareholders with existing instructions on their account to receive a paper copy of meeting materials will receive a paper copy
of the Information Circular with this notification. Please note that if you request a paper copy of the Information Circular, you will
not receive a new proxy form or VIF, so please keep the original form sent with this notice in order to vote. SHAREHOLDERS ARE REMINDED
TO REVIEW THE INFORMATION CIRCULAR PRIOR TO VOTING.

 

SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE ASKED TO CONSIDER AND
VOTE ON THE FOLLOWING MATTERS:

 

èFINANCIAL
 STATEMENTS: To receive the audited consolidated financial statements for the year
 ended December 31, 2023 and the report of the auditors thereon.

 

èELECTION
 OF DIRECTORS: To elect the ten director nominees. See the section entitled “Election
 of Directors” in the Information Circular.

 

èAPPOINTMENT
 OF AUDITORS: To appoint Deloitte LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
 Firm, as auditors for 2024 and to authorize the directors to fix the auditors’ remuneration.
 See the section entitled “Appointment of Auditors” in the Information
 Circular.

 

èSAY
 ON PAY: To approve a non-binding advisory resolution on the Company’s approach
 to executive compensation. See the sections entitled “Executive Compensation”
 and “Say On Pay Advisory Vote” in the Information Circular.

 

èOTHER
 BUSINESS: To transact any other business which may properly come before the Meeting or
 any adjournment of the Meeting.

 

Shareholders with questions about notice and
access can call toll free at 1-800-380-8687

 

 
 - 2 -
 

VOTING – ONLINE VIRTUAL MEETING PLATFORM

 

All shareholders
participating in our online virtual Meeting platform will be able listen to the Meeting live, ask questions online, and for registered
shareholders or proxyholders, submit votes in real time. The online Meeting can be accessed at https://virtual-meetings.tsxtrust.com/1596.
Registered shareholders and duly appointed proxyholders (including non-registered shareholders who have duly appointed themselves
as proxyholders) may enter the online Meeting platform by clicking “I have a control number” and entering a valid control
number and the password “wheaton2024” (case sensitive) before the start of the Meeting. Non-registered shareholders
who wish to vote at the Meeting through the online virtual platform must insert their own name in the space provided on the VIF received
from the nominee. In so doing, such non-registered shareholder will be instructing its nominee to appoint such non-registered shareholder
as proxyholder. Non-registered shareholders must adhere strictly to the signature and return instructions provided by their nominee.
It is not necessary to complete the form in any other respect, since such non-registered shareholder will be voting at the Meeting by
voting online through the online virtual Meeting platform. Non-registered shareholders who wish to vote at the Meeting must register
as proxyholder by contacting TSX Trust Company at 1-866-751-6315 (in North America) or 1 (416) 682-3860 outside North America or by completing
the electronic form located at: https://www.tsxtrust.com/control-number-request by 10:30 a.m. PST on Wednesday,
May 8, 2024. TSX Trust Company will then provide the non-registered shareholder with a control number by email after the proxy
voting deadline has passed. The control number is the non-registered shareholder’s username for the purposes of logging into the
Meeting. More information regarding participating in the Meeting online, including browser requirements, is detailed in the Wheaton Virtual
Meeting Guide provided with this notice and access notification or on Wheaton’s website at www.wheatonpm.com/Investors/annual-general-meeting/.

 

VOTING – PROXY

 

For shareholders who are unable to attend the
online virtual Meeting, they may choose to vote by proxy as follows:

 

Registered shareholders
are asked to return their proxies using the following methods by the proxy deposit date noted on your proxy:

 

 
 CANADA
 AND UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 FAX:
 1-416-595-9593.
 
 
 
 
 INTERNET:
 Go
 to www.meeting-vote.com and follow the instructions using the 13-digit control number located on the proxy.
 
 
 
 
 E-MAIL:
 Send
 to proxyvote@tmx.com.
 
 
 
 
 MAIL:
 Complete the form of proxy or any other proper
 form of proxy, sign it and mail it to:
 
 TSX Trust Company
 Proxy Dept., P.O. Box 721
 Agincourt, Ontario M1S 0A1 Canada
 
 

Non-registered
(or beneficial) shareholders are asked to return their voting instructions using the methods set out on their VIF or business
reply envelope, or as set out below, at least one business day in advance of the proxy deposit date noted on your VIF:

 

 
 CANADA
 
 UNITED
 STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 MAIL:
 Data
 Processing Centre
 P.O. Box 3700, STN 
 INDUSTRIAL PARK
 Markham, Ontario L3R 9Z9 Canada
 
 MAIL:
 Proxy
 Services
 PO Box 9104
 Farmingdale, New York 
 11735-9533 USA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TELEPHONE:
 English: 1-800-474-7493
 French: 1-800-474-7501
 
 TELEPHONE:
 1-800-454-8683
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTERNET:
 Go to www.proxyvote.com and follow the instructions
 using the 16-digit control number included in your VIF.
 
 INTERNET:
 Go to www.proxyvote.com
 and follow the instructions using the 16-digit control number included in your VIF.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 QR
 CODE:
 Vote
 by scanning the QR code included in your voting instruction form to access the voting site from your mobile device.
 
 QR
 CODE:
 Vote
 by scanning the QR code included in your voting instruction form to access the voting site from your mobile device.