EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

Exhibit 99.1 

 
 
 NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS

 
 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual Meeting of
shareholders (the “Meeting”) of Silver Wheaton Corp. (the “Company”) will be
held in the Mackenzie Ballroom of the Fairmont Waterfront Hotel, 900 Canada
Place Way, Vancouver, British Columbia on May 23, 2012 at 1:00 p.m. (Vancouver
time), for the following purposes: 

 
 
 (a) 
 
 To receive and consider the audited consolidated
 financial statements of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011
 and the report of the auditors thereon;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 To elect the directors of the Company for the ensuing
 year;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 To appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Independent
 Registered Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the Company for the
 ensuing year and to authorize the directors to fix the auditors’
 remuneration; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 To transact such other business as may properly come
 before the Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
This notice is accompanied by a management information
circular, either a form of proxy for registered shareholders or a voting
instruction form for beneficial shareholders, and, for those registered
shareholders who so requested, a copy of the audited consolidated financial
statements and MD&A of the Company for the financial year ended December 31,
2011. Shareholders are able to request to receive copies of the Company’s annual
and/or interim financial statements and MD&A on the form of proxy or voting
instruction form, as applicable. The audited consolidated financial statements
and MD&A of the Company for the financial year ended December 31, 2011 will
be sent to those shareholders who have previously requested to receive them.
Otherwise, they are available upon request to the Company or they can be found
on SEDAR at www.sedar.com, on the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission website at www.sec.gov, or on the Company’s website at
www.silverwheaton.com. 
Registered shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting
are requested to complete, date, sign and return the enclosed form of proxy and
deposit it with the Company’s transfer agent by 1:00 p.m. (Vancouver time) on
May 18, 2012, or no later than 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays) before the time of any adjourned Meeting so that as large a
representation as possible may be had at the Meeting. 
Non-registered shareholders of the Company who have received
this Notice of Meeting and accompanying materials through a broker, a financial
institution, a participant, a trustee or administrator of a self-administered
retirement savings plan, retirement income fund, education savings plan or other
similar self-administered savings or investment plan registered under the
Income Tax Act (Canada), or a nominee of any of the foregoing that holds
your security on your behalf (the “Intermediary”), are required to complete and
return the materials in accordance with the instructions provided by the
Intermediary. 
The board of directors of the Company has by resolution fixed
the close of business on March 30, 2012 as the record date, being the date for
the determination of the registered holders of common shares entitled to receive
notice of, and to vote at, the Meeting and any adjournment thereof. 
DATED at Vancouver, British Columbia this 22nd
day of March, 2012. 

 
 
 By Order of the Board of Directors 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Randy V. J.
 Smallwood” 
 
 
 
 Randy V. J. Smallwood 
 
 
 President and Chief Executive Officer