EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

Exhibit 99.1

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
TSX:SLW
 

 
August 14, 2013
 
 
NYSE:SLW
 

SILVER WHEATON DECLARES THIRD QUARTERLY 
DIVIDEND PAYMENT FOR 2013 

Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (“Silver Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has declared its third quarterly cash dividend payment for
2013 of US$0.10 per common share. The quarterly dividend will be paid to holders of record of its common shares as of the close of business on August 30, 2013, and will be distributed on or about September 12, 2013.

Under the Company’s dividend policy which was amended on May 10, 2013, the quarterly dividend per common share will be equal to 20% of the average cash generated by operating activities in the previous four quarters divided by the
Company’s outstanding common shares at the time the dividend is approved, all rounded to the nearest cent. As a transitionary measure, however, the third quarterly dividend in 2013 will be calculated using the average cash generated by
operating activities for the trailing three quarters (fourth quarter 2012, first quarter 2013 and second quarter 2013), after which future quarterly dividends will be calculated using the average cash generated by operating activities for the
trailing four quarters. 

The declaration, timing, amount and payment of future dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an ‘eligible dividend’ for Canadian income tax purposes.

About Silver Wheaton 

Silver Wheaton is the largest precious metals streaming company in the world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2013 attributable production is approximately 33.5 million silver equivalent ounces1, including 145 thousand ounces
of gold. By 2017, annual attributable production is anticipated to increase significantly to approximately 49 million silver equivalent ounces1, including 180 thousand ounces of gold. This growth is driven by the Company’s portfolio
of low-cost and long-life assets, including silver and precious metal streams on Barrick’s Pascua-Lama project, Hudbay’s Constancia project, and Vale’s Salobo and Sudbury mines.

____________________________
1 Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1 

- 2 - 

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS 

The information contained herein contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of
applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of silver and gold, the
estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of
estimated future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such
as “plans”, “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”,
“anticipates” or “does not anticipate”, or “believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”,
“might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of
activity, performance or achievements of Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in the price of silver and gold; the absence of control
over mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining
and exploration activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of tax
laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section entitled “Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in Silver Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's
Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation of the mining
operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold, no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining operations will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance with their public
statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, and such other assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
contained in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should
not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws. 

For further information, please contact: 

Patrick Drouin 
Vice President, Investor Relations
Silver Wheaton Corp. 
Tel: 1-800-380-8687 
Email: info@silverwheaton.com 
Website: www.silverwheaton.com