EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com

Exhibit 99.1

 

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX: SLW 
 
 September 28, 2012 
 NYSE: SLW 
SILVER WHEATON CLOSES ACQUISITION OF PRECIOUS
METALS STREAMS FROM HUDBAY’S 777 MINE AND CONSTANCIA
PROJECT
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp.
(“Silver Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) is pleased to
announce that it has closed the previously announced purchase from HudBay
Minerals Inc. (“Hudbay”) (TSX:HBM) (NYSE:HBM) of 100% of the life of mine
silver production from its currently producing 777 Mine (“777”), 100% of the
life of mine silver production from its Constancia Project (“Constancia”), as
well as 100% of gold production from the 777 Mine until Constancia satisfies a
completion test, or the end of 2016, whichever is later. At that point, Silver
Wheaton’s share of gold production from 777 will be reduced to 50% for the
remainder of the mine life.
Silver Wheaton will pay Hudbay total cash consideration of
US$750 million, of which US$500 million was paid upon today’s closing, with two
further payments of US$125 million each to be made upon the satisfaction of
minimum capital expenditures having been incurred at Constancia. In addition,
Silver Wheaton will make ongoing payments of the lesser of US$5.90 per ounce of
silver and US$400 per ounce of gold (both subject to an inflationary adjustment)
or the prevailing market price per ounce of silver and gold delivered.
Silver Wheaton made the initial upfront cash payment of US$500
million using cash on hand. Subsequent upfront cash payments totaling US$250
million are also expected to be financed with the remaining cash on hand and
continued strong operating cash flows.
ABOUT 777 MINE 
Hudbay’s flagship 777 mine is located in the prolific Flin Flon
Greenstone Belt, Manitoba, Canada, where Hudbay has been mining for nearly 85
years. A low-cost producer of zinc, copper, gold and silver, 777 is an
underground mining operation, with an ore concentrator and zinc production
facility located immediately adjacent to the mine. 777 commenced commercial
production in 2004 and has reserves extending the mine life until 2020. The mine
has had good exploration success with drilling in recent years shifting
resources to reserve definition. Over 21,000 metres of exploration drilling in
2011 will be followed up with a similar sized program in 2012, with a focus on
targeting additional resources. In addition, completion of the 777 North
expansion, which is well underway, will provide access to mineral resources in
the north and east zones, and will also provide an underground exploration
platform to enable the evaluation of additional exploration opportunities near
the 777 mine.

- 2 - 
ABOUT CONSTANCIA PROJECT 
Constancia is located in an established mining district in the
province of Chumbivilcas, southern Peru. It is forecast to be a large,
lower-cost and long-life open pit mine, producing copper, molybdenum, silver and
gold. With key environmental permits in place, strong community support, and
engineering and design work essentially complete, first production is
anticipated in 2014 with full production in 2015. Capital expenditures are
estimated at US$1.5 billion and the mine plan currently forecasts an annual
production rate of 90,000 tonnes of contained copper in concentrate with
molybdenum, silver and gold by-products. Constancia has more than a 16 year mine
life and will become Hudbay’s largest mine, once in production. Considerable
exploration potential exists, as was evidenced by an initial resource at the
higher-grade Pampacancha satellite deposit, which was announced by Hudbay in
April of 2012. Significant exploration drilling at Constancia is ongoing, and
Hudbay believes that there is the potential to yield additional higher grade
mineralization in satellite deposits.
ABOUT SILVER WHEATON 
Silver Wheaton is the largest silver streaming company in the
world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2012 attributable production
is approximately 28 million silver equivalent ounces, including 42,000 ounces of
gold1. By 2016, annual attributable production is anticipated to
increase significantly to approximately 48 million silver equivalent ounces,
including 100,000 ounces of gold1. This growth is driven by the
Company’s portfolio of low-cost and long-life assets, including silver and
precious metal streams on Barrick’s Pascua-Lama project and Hudbay’s flagship
777 mine and Constancia project. 
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

The information contained herein contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information" within the
meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking
statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact,
include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of
silver and gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the
realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated
future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve
conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally, these
forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as "plans", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected",
"budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates" or
"does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such words and phrases or
statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would",
"might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved". Forward-looking statements
are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may
cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of
Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by
such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in
the price of silver and gold; the absence of control over mining operations from
which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining
operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary
commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration
activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the
mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans
continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of
tax laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section
entitled "Description of the Business - Risk Factors" in Silver Wheaton's Annual
Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.
Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management believes to be
reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton
purchases silver or gold, no material adverse change in the market price of
commodities, that the mining operations will operate and the mining projects
will be completed in accordance with their public statements and achieve their
stated production outcomes, and such other assumptions and factors as set out
herein. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted to identify important factors that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in
forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to
be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that
forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. Accordingly, readers
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton
does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that are included or
incorporated by reference herein, except in accordance with applicable
securities laws. 
_______________________________________________1
Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 50:1 

- 3 - 
CAUTIONARY LANGUAGE REGARDING RESERVES AND RESOURCES
For further information on Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources and on
Silver Wheaton more generally, readers should refer to Silver Wheaton’s Annual
Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2011, and other continuous
disclosure documents filed by Silver Wheaton since January 1, 2012, available on
SEDAR at www.sedar.com. Silver Wheaton’s
Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources are subject to the qualifications and
notes set forth therein. Mineral Resources which are not Mineral Reserves do not
have demonstrated economic viability. 
Cautionary Note to United States Investors Concerning
Estimates of Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resources: The
information contained herein uses the terms “Measured”, “Indicated” and
“Inferred” Mineral Resources. United States investors are advised that while
such terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them and expressly
prohibits U.S. registered companies from including such terms in their filings
with the SEC. “Inferred Mineral Resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as
to their existence, and as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be
assumed that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will ever be
upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of Inferred
Mineral Resources may not form the basis of feasibility or other economic
studies. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any
part of Measured or Indicated Mineral Resources will ever be converted into
Mineral Reserves or that any exploration potential will ever be converted to any
category of Mineral Reserves or Mineral Resources. United States investors are
also cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an Inferred Mineral
Resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable. United States investors
are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Silver Wheaton’s Form 40-F, a
copy of which may be obtained from Silver Wheaton or from http://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml.
In reliance upon Section 9.2 of National Instrument 43-101, all
scientific and technical information in this document regarding 777 was sourced
by the Company from the Annual Information Form of Hubday Minerals Inc. filed by
Hudbay Minerals on March 13, 2012 on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. Mr. Samuel Mah,
Director of Engineering, is a “qualified person” as such term is defined under
National Instrument 43-101, and has approved the disclosure in this document in
reliance on such Annual Information Form.
For further information, please contact: Patrick
DrouinVice President, Investor Relations Silver Wheaton Corp. Tel:
1-800-380-8687 Email: info@silverwheaton.com
Website: www.silverwheaton.com