EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED SEPTEMBER 3, 2020

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

 

Wheaton Precious Metals Announces Randy
Smallwood Appointed as New Chair of the World Gold Council

TSX: WPM
NYSE: WPM

VANCOUVER, BC, Sept. 3, 2020 /CNW/ - Wheaton
Precious Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that the World Gold Council
has appointed Randy Smallwood, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wheaton, as its new Chair.

"I am honoured to represent the World
Gold Council as its new Chair, especially in these times when the importance of gold is becoming ever more apparent. There is no
better industry body to advocate the case for gold than the World Gold Council, who has worked tirelessly to grow gold's recognition
as an essential allocation within any investment portfolio, while at the same time nurturing the more traditional demand segments,"
said Randy Smallwood, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wheaton. "The World Gold Council is well-positioned to continue
leading on landmark initiatives that support our industry, such as the development of the Responsible Gold Mining Principles. I
look forward to working with David Tait and the rest of the team, and the entire Board to further advance the invaluable work of
the World Gold Council and deliver industry-leading standards that help set the bar."

Since 2014, Wheaton has been a member of the
World Gold Council, which includes the world's leading gold mining companies. The World Gold Council is the market development
organization for the gold industry. Its purpose is to stimulate and sustain demand for gold, provide industry leadership and be
the global authority on the gold market.

"Randy has been a valuable member of the
Board for many years and brings a wealth of knowledge and industry experience" said David Tait, Chief Executive of the World
Gold Council. "Randy is widely known and highly respected across the mining industry, which I believe will greatly help us
in our endeavours to explain the important role that gold plays in today's societies and the importance of gold as an asset class.
I am very much looking forward to working closely with him as our new Chair."

Doug Holtby, Wheaton's Chairman of the Board,
further commented, "I'd like to congratulate Randy on this appointment. Under Randy's leadership, Wheaton has become a leader
in the precious metals streaming space from both a financial and sustainability perspective. I strongly believe the World Gold
Council will benefit from his many years of experience and commitment to responsible mining."

View
original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-announces-randy-smallwood-appointed-as-new-chair-of-the-world-gold-council-301124003.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

 

View
original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/September2020/03/c5897.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: Patrick Drouin, Senior Vice President,
Investor Relations, Wheaton Precious Metals Corp., Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com, Website: www.wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 12:05e 03-SEP-20