EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED JUNE 26, 2024

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

 

Wheaton Precious Metals Named Among Corporate
Knights' 50 Best Corporate Citizens in Canada

Vancouver, BC, June 26, 2024 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious
Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that it has been named as one of Corporate
Knights' 2024 Best 50 Corporate Citizens in Canada.

"We are incredibly honoured to be ranked among
the top 10 companies on Corporate Knights' annual list of the Best 50 Corporate Citizens in Canada," said Randy Smallwood, Wheaton's
President and Chief Executive Officer. "Wheaton is committed to positively contributing to society by supporting the communities
in which we live and operate as well as providing capital and support to mining partners that share our values and demonstrate responsible
mining practices."

The Best 50 Corporate Citizens in Canada are evaluated
on a set of 25 key performance indicators to assess how firms manage their resources, employees and finances in comparison to their peer
group, with 50% of each company's score tied to the percentage of their revenue and investments that qualify as sustainable.

"With a significant portion of the score linked
to sustainable revenue, this metric underscores the exceptional quality of Wheaton's mining partners and highlights the rigorous due diligence
process we employ," said Patrick Drouin, Chief Sustainability Officer and President of Wheaton Precious Metals International.

Earlier this year, Wheaton was recognized among Corporate
Knights' 2024 100 most sustainable corporations in the world.

To learn more about Wheaton's sustainability approach
and commitments, please visit the website at: www.wheatonpm.com/Sustainability. 

About Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

Wheaton Precious Metals is the world's premier precious
metals streaming company with the highest-quality portfolio of long-life, low-cost assets. Its business model offers investors leverage
to commodity prices and exploration upside but typically with a much lower risk profile than a traditional mining company. Wheaton delivers
amongst the highest cash operating margins in the mining industry, allowing it to pay a competitive dividend and continue to grow through
accretive acquisitions. As a result, Wheaton has consistently outperformed gold and silver, as well as other mining investments. Wheaton
is committed to strong ESG practices and giving back to the communities where Wheaton and its mining partners operate. Wheaton creates
sustainable value through streaming.

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking-Statements

This press release contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information"
within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning the business, operations and financial performance of Wheaton.
Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements
with respect to ESG commitments by Wheaton and at mineral stream interests currently owned by Wheaton (the "Mining Operations").
Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results,
level of activity, performance or achievements of Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements including (without limitation) risks related to climate change, environmental, social and governance matters, the ability to
achieve ESG commitments and goals at both Wheaton and the Mining Operations and other risks discussed in the section entitled "Description
of the Business – Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca and Wheaton's
Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2023 filed March 28, 2024 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR and the
risks identified under "Risks and Uncertainties" in Wheaton's Management's Discussion and Analysis for the year ended December
31, 2023, available on SEDAR+ and in Wheaton's Form 6-K filed March 19, 2024. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management
currently believes to be reasonable, including (without limitation) that ESG commitments and goals at both Wheaton and the Mining Operations
will be achieved, that there will be no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that estimations of future production
from the mining operations and mineral reserves and resources are accurate, that the mining operations from which Wheaton purchases precious
metals will continue to operate, that each party will satisfy their obligations in accordance with the precious metals purchase agreements
and royalty agreements, and that Wheaton's application of the CRA Settlement (including the Company's assessment that there will be no
material change in the Company's facts or change in law or jurisprudence for years subsequent to 2010) and assessment of the impact of
the implementation of a 15% global minimum tax, are accurate and that expectations regarding the resolution of legal and tax matters will
be achieved (including CRA audits involving the Company). 

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-named-among-corporate-knights-50-best-corporate-citizens-in-canada-302183134.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

 

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/June2024/26/c3051.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: For further information: Investor Contact,
Emma Murray, Vice President, Investor Relations, Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com; Media Contact, Simona Antolak, Vice President,
Communications & Corporate Affairs, Tel: 604-639-9870, Email: simona.antolak@wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 08:07e 26-JUN-24