EX-99.1
2
exhibit99-1.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 Silver Wheaton Corp.: Exhibit 99.1 - Filed by newsfilecorp.com
 

 

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
 TSX:SLW 
 
 May 28, 2013 
 NYSE:SLW 
SILVER WHEATON ANNOUNCES US$1 BILLION TERM CREDIT
FACILITY
Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (“Silver
Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) announces the closing of a US$1
billion non-revolving term loan (“NRT Loan”), with a 3-year term, extendable by
1 year with the unanimous consent of lenders. 
Silver Wheaton has fully drawn US$1 billion under the NRT Loan
and has applied these proceeds to repay the remaining balance of US$560 million
on its Bridge Facility and US$440 million outstanding under its Revolving
Facility. Following these repayments, the Company has total debt outstanding of
US$1.06 billion with US$1 billion outstanding on the NRT Loan and US$60 million
outstanding under the Revolving Facility, which matures in February 2018. The
Bridge Facility was terminated following the repayment of the outstanding
balance.
“Given Silver Wheaton’s strong cash flows and relatively fixed
costs, we are very comfortable with our current balance sheet and our ability to
swiftly repay the outstanding debt,” said Randy Smallwood, Silver Wheaton’s
President and Chief Executive Officer. “The company received strong support from
the syndicate of banks that participated in this new term loan. Following the
closing of this loan, there is US$940 million of credit available under the
Revolving Facility, which, together with strong operating cash flows, positions
the company well for continued growth.”
At the Company’s option, amounts outstanding under the NRT Loan
will incur interest at either (i) the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)
plus an applicable margin ranging from 120 to 220 basis points or (ii) The Bank
of Nova Scotia’s US Base Rate plus an applicable margin ranging from 20 to 120
basis points, with the applicable margin being determined by the Company’s
leverage ratio.
Scotiabank and BMO Capital Markets acted as Co-Lead Arrangers
and Joint Book-runners. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, HSBC Bank Canada,
Royal Bank of Canada and Toronto Dominion Bank acted as Co-Documentation agents.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Export Development Canada acted as Senior
Managers, and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi (UFJ), National Bank of Canada, and
Mizuho Corporate Bank acted as Lenders. 

- 2 -
CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS
The information contained herein contains “forward-looking
 statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities
 Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the
 meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking
 statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact,
 include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of
 silver and gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the
 realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated
 future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve
 conversion rates and statements as to any future dividends. Generally, these
 forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
 terminology such as “plans”, “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”,
 “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates” or
 “does not anticipate”, or “believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or
 statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”,
 “might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements
 are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may
 cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of
 Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by
 such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in
 the price of silver and gold; the absence of control over mining operations from
 which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold and risks related to these mining
 operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary
 commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration
 activities, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the
 mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans
 continue to be refined; and differences in the interpretation or application of
 tax laws and regulations; as well as those factors discussed in the section
 entitled “Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in Silver Wheaton's Annual
 Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver
 Wheaton's Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
 Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management
 believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation
 of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver or gold, no
 material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining
 operations will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance
 with their public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, and
 such other assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton
 has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to
 differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may
 be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or
 intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove
 to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on
 forward-looking statements. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any
 forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference
 herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws.
For further information, please contact:

 
 Patrick Drouin 
 
 Vice President, Investor Relations 
 
 Silver Wheaton Corp. 
 
 Tel: 1-800-380-8687 
 
 Email: info@silverwheaton.com 
 
 Website: www.silverwheaton.com