EX-99.1
2
ex991.htm
NEWS RELEASE DATED MARCH 14, 2024

 

Exhibit 99.1

 

 

Wheaton Precious Metals Announces Increase to
Quarterly Dividend

DIVIDEND DECLARATION

VANCOUVER, BC, March 14, 2024 /CNW/ - Wheaton Precious
Metals™ Corp. ("Wheaton" or the "Company") is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has declared its
first quarterly cash dividend payment for 2024 of US$0.155 per common share, an increase from the fourth quarterly cash dividend payment
for 2023 of US$0.15 per common share.

Amendment to Dividend Policy

The Company has revised its dividend policy, transitioning
from distributing 30% of the average of the previous four quarters' operating cash flows to shareholders, to adopting a progressive dividend
policy marked by an increase to our 2024 annual dividend.

The declaration, timing, amount and payment of future
dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an 'eligible dividend' for Canadian income tax
purposes.

First Quarterly Dividend

The first quarterly cash dividend for 2024 of US$0.155
will be paid to holders of record of Wheaton common shares as of the close of business on April 3, 2024, and will be distributed on or
about April 15, 2024. The ex-dividend trading date is April 2, 2024.

Dividend Reinvestment Plan

The Company has previously implemented a Dividend
Reinvestment Plan ("DRIP"). Participation in the DRIP is optional. For the purposes of this quarterly dividend, the Company
has elected to issue common shares under the DRIP through treasury at the Average Market Price, as defined in the DRIP, without a discount.

The Company may, from time to time, in its discretion,
apply, change or eliminate any discount applicable to Treasury Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, or direct that such common shares
be purchased in Market Acquisitions, as defined in the DRIP, at the prevailing market price, any of which would be publicly announced.

The DRIP and enrollment forms, including direct deposit,
are available for download on the Company's website at www.wheatonpm.com, in the 'investors' section under the 'dividends' tab.

Registered shareholders may also enroll in the DRIP
online through the plan agent's self-service web portal at: https://tsxtrust.com/DRIP

Beneficial shareholders should contact their financial
intermediary to arrange enrollment. All shareholders considering enrollment in the DRIP should carefully review the terms of the DRIP
and consult with their advisors as to the implications of enrollment in the DRIP.

This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation
of an offer of securities. A registration statement relating to the DRIP has been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and may be obtained under the Company's profile on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov. A written
copy of the prospectus included in the registration statement may be obtained by contacting the Corporate Secretary of the Company at
1021 West Hastings Street, Suite 3500, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6E 0C3.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

This press release contains "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and "forward-looking information"
within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation concerning the business, operations and financial performance of Wheaton.
Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements
with respect to future dividends. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that
may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed
or implied by such forward-looking statements including risks discussed in the section entitled "Description of the Business –
Risk Factors" in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca and Wheaton's Form 40-F for the year ended
December 31, 2022 filed March 31, 2023 on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on EDGAR and the risks identified under
"Risks and Uncertainties" in Wheaton's Management's Discussion and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2023, available
on SEDAR+ and in Wheaton's Form 6-K filed March 19, 2024. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management currently believes
to be reasonable, including (without limitation) that there will be no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that
estimations of future production from the mining operations and mineral reserves and resources are accurate, that the mining operations
from which Wheaton purchases precious metals will continue to operate, that each party will satisfy their obligations in accordance with
the precious metals purchase agreements and royalty agreements, and that Wheaton's application of the CRA Settlement (including the Company's
assessment that there will be no material change in the Company's facts or change in law or jurisprudence for years subsequent to 2010)
and assessment of the impact of a 15% global minimum tax, are accurate and that expectations regarding the resolution of legal and tax
matters will be achieved (including CRA audits involving the Company).

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/wheaton-precious-metals-announces-increase-to-quarterly-dividend-302089872.html

SOURCE Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

 

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/March2024/14/c1912.html

%CIK: 0001323404

For further information: Emma Murray, Vice President, Investor Relations,
Wheaton Precious Metals Corp., Tel: 1-844-288-9878, Email: info@wheatonpm.com

CO: Wheaton Precious Metals Corp.

CNW 17:09e 14-MAR-24