EX-99.1
2
eh1301227_ex9901.htm
EXHIBIT 99.1

 eh1301227_ex9901.htm
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
TSX:SLW

November 11, 2013
NYSE:SLW

 

 

SILVER WHEATON DECLARES FOURTH QUARTERLY

DIVIDEND PAYMENT FOR 2013

Vancouver, British Columbia – Silver Wheaton Corp. (“Silver Wheaton” or the “Company”) (TSX:SLW) (NYSE:SLW) is pleased to announce that its Board of Directors has declared its fourth quarterly cash dividend payment for 2013 of US$0.09 per common share. The quarterly dividend will be paid to holders of record of its common shares as of the close of business on November 27, 2013, and will be distributed on or about December 11, 2013.

Under the Company’s dividend policy which was amended on May 10, 2013, the quarterly dividend per common share will be equal to 20% of the average cash generated by operating activities in the previous four quarters divided by the Company’s outstanding common shares at the time the dividend is approved, all rounded to the nearest cent.

The declaration, timing, amount and payment of future dividends remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. This dividend qualifies as an ‘eligible dividend’ for Canadian income tax purposes.

About Silver Wheaton

Silver Wheaton is the largest precious metals streaming company in the world. Based upon its current agreements, forecast 2013 attributable production is approximately 33.5 million silver equivalent ounces1, including 145,000 ounces of gold. By 2017, annual attributable production is anticipated to increase significantly to approximately 42.5 million silver equivalent ounces1, including 210,000 ounces of gold. This growth is driven by the Company’s portfolio of low-cost and long-life assets, including precious metal and gold streams on Hudbay’s Constancia project and Vale’s Salobo and Sudbury mines.

 

 

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING-STATEMENTS

The information contained herein contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of silver or gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the realization of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production, costs of production, reserve determination, reserve conversion rates, statements as to any future dividends, the ability to fund outstanding commitments and continue to acquire accretive precious metal stream interests and 

_______________________________

1 Silver equivalent production forecast assumes a gold/silver ratio of 53.3:1

 

 

 

- 2 -

 

 

 

assessments of the impact of various legal and tax matters. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “plans”, “expects” or “does not expect”, “is expected”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “forecasts”, “intends”, “anticipates” or “does not anticipate”, or “believes”, or variations of such words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “might” or “will be taken”, “occur” or “be achieved”. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, operations, level of activity, performance or achievements of Silver Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: fluctuations in the price of silver or gold; the absence of control over mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver and gold and risks related to these mining operations including risks related to fluctuations in the price of the primary commodities mined at such operations, actual results of mining and exploration activities, environmental, economic and political risks of the jurisdictions in which the mining operations are located and changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined; differences in the interpretation or application of tax laws and regulations; and the Company’s interpretation of, or compliance with, tax laws, is found to be incorrect; as well as those factors discussed in the section entitled “Description of the Business - Risk Factors” in Silver Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and in Silver Wheaton's Form 40-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management believes to be reasonable, including but not limited to: the continued operation of the mining operations from which Silver Wheaton purchases silver and gold, no material adverse change in the market price of commodities, that the mining operations will operate and the mining projects will be completed in accordance with their public statements and achieve their stated production outcomes, the continuing ability to fund or obtain funding for outstanding commitments, the ability to source and obtain accretive precious metal stream interests, expectations regarding the resolution of legal and tax matters, and such other assumptions and factors as set out herein. Although Silver Wheaton has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements and are cautioned that actual outcomes may vary. Silver Wheaton does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that are included or incorporated by reference herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws.

For further information, please contact:

Patrick Drouin

Vice President, Investor Relations

Silver Wheaton Corp.

Tel: 1-800-380-8687

Email: info@silverwheaton.com

Website: www.silverwheaton.com